=== Ensitrelvir (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5672)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ensitrelvir is an antiviral agent that inhibits the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) main protease and is indicated for post-exposure prophylaxis of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) following contact with an individual who has COVID-19.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 375 mg/day PO (loading dose); 125 mg/day PO (maintenance dose).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactic shock, angioedema, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy Avoid the use of ensitrelvir during pregnancy due to the risk of fetal harm. There are no data on the use of ensitrelvir during pregnancy to identify a drug-associated risk of...

Brand Names
  - XOCOVA

Dosage Forms
  - XOCOVA 125mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        375 mg PO once daily on day 1, followed by 125 mg PO once daily for 4 days. Initiate therapy as soon as possible and within 72 hours after exposure to an individual with COVID-19.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        375 mg PO once daily on day 1, followed by 125 mg PO once daily for 4 days. Initiate therapy as soon as possible and within 72 hours after exposure to an individual with COVID-19.
    Heading
    For post-exposure prevention of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of ensitrelvir during pregnancy due to the risk of fetal harm. There are no data on the use of ensitrelvir during pregnancy to identify a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. However, in animal studies, embryo-fetal lethality and skeletal malformations occurred in rabbits at exposures of 7 times the human exposure at the recommended human dose (RHD). In rats, fetal growth retardation, low fetal body weight, skeletal variations, offspring lethality, low offspring body weight, and delayed morphological development occurred following exposure during gestation and lactation at exposures approximately 9 times the RHD.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel individuals about the reproductive risk associated with ensitrelvir. This medication may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status in people who may become pregnant prior to treatment initiation. Advise these individuals to use effective contraception during ensitrelvir therapy and for 2 weeks after the last dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during ensitrelvir therapy and for at least 2 weeks after the final dose. There are no data on the presence of ensitrelvir in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Ensitrelvir was detected in the milk of lactating rats at concentrations approximately 2 times higher than maternal plasma concentrations 4 hours after a single oral dose.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of ensitrelvir during pregnancy due to the risk of fetal harm. There are no data on the use of ensitrelvir during pregnancy to identify a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. However, in animal studies, embryo-fetal lethality and skeletal malformations occurred in rabbits at exposures of 7 times the human exposure at the recommended human dose (RHD). In rats, fetal growth retardation, low fetal body weight, skeletal variations, offspring lethality, low offspring body weight, and delayed morphological development occurred following exposure during gestation and lactation at exposures approximately 9 times the RHD.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during ensitrelvir therapy and for at least 2 weeks after the final dose. There are no data on the presence of ensitrelvir in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Ensitrelvir was detected in the milk of lactating rats at concentrations approximately 2 times higher than maternal plasma concentrations 4 hours after a single oral dose.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Abemaciclib: (Major) If coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of ensitrelvir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and ensitrelvir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term ensitrelvir use is necessary, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by 5.1-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with ensitrelvir may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ensitrelvir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ensitrelvir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with strong CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adagrasib-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ensitrelvir. Avoid concomitant use during adagrasib therapy initiation (approximately 8 days); concomitant use before steady state is achieved may increase adagrasib exposure and the risk for adagrasib-related adverse reactions. Adagrasib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of a single 200 mg dose of adagrasib with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased adagrasib exposure by approximately 4-fold, however, no clinically significant differences in pharmacokinetics are predicted at steady state.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ensitrelvir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until ensitrelvir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of ensitrelvir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ensitrelvir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ensitrelvir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide and ensitrelvir due to the potential for increased budesonide exposure. Use caution with inhaled forms of budesonide as systemic exposure to the corticosteroid may also increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In the presence of another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the systemic exposure to oral budesonide was increased by 8-fold.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alfuzosin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alfuzosin and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and ensitrelvir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with ensitrelvir may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with ensitrelvir due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP inhibitor.
ALPRAZolam: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alprazolam and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ensitrelvir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of amiodarone and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased amiodarone exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Major) Coadministration of atorvastatin with ensitrelvir may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Amobarbital: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Apalutamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and apalutamide is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Apalutamide exposure may also increase. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor and apalutamide is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the steady-state exposure of the active moieties of apalutamide (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) by approximately 28%.
Apixaban: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when administered with ensitrelvir. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid coadministration. Concomitant administration of apixaban and ensitrelvir may result in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding. Apixaban is a P-gp and CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, administration of another combined P-gp/strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the apixaban AUC by 2-fold.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ensitrelvir and aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to substantially increased exposure of aprepitant. Fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant; therefore, a similar interaction is likely. Aprepitant is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Administration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the aprepitant AUC and mean terminal half-life by approximately 5-fold and 3-fold, respectively.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and ensitrelvir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and ensitrelvir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in artemether-related adverse reactions, such as QT prolongation, if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase artemether exposure. Artemether is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of artemether and dihydroartemisinin (an active metabolite of artemether) by 2.3- and 1.5-fold respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lumefantrine-related adverse reactions, such as QT prolongation, if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lumefantrine exposure. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of lumefantrine by 1.6-fold.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for asciminib-related adverse effects in patients who are receiving asciminib 200 mg twice daily if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased asciminib overall exposure by 36%.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ensitrelvir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ensitrelvir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with strong CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atogepant: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Atorvastatin: (Major) Coadministration of atorvastatin with ensitrelvir may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Avacopan: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Avanafil: (Major) Do not use avanafil in patients receiving ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased avanafil serum concentrations and serious adverse reactions. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased the avanafil AUC by 13-fold.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Axitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after ensitrelvir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and ensitrelvir is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with strong inhibitors increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure resulting in 45% to 86% decreases in serum cortisol AUC. A strong inhibitor increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate.
Barbiturates: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Bedaquiline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in bedaquiline-related adverse effects, including QT prolongation and hepatotoxicity, if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase bedaquiline exposure. Bedaquiline is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased bedaquiline overall exposure by 14% to 22%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with strong CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of bortezomib toxicity and consider a bortezomib dose reduction if coadministration of ensitrelvir is necessary. Bortezomib exposure may be increased. Bortezomib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased bortezomib exposure by 35%.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with bosentan is necessary, as the systemic exposure of bosentan may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions; however, a bosentan dose adjustment is not necessary. Administration of bosentan with both ensitrelvir and a strong or moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor is not recommended. Bosentan is a CYP3A and CYP2C9 substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Bosutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bosutinib and ensitrelvir as bosutinib plasma exposure may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of bosutinib adverse events (e.g., myelosuppression, GI toxicity). Bosutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The Cmax and AUC values of bosutinib were increased 5.2-fold and 8.6-fold, respectively, when a single oral dose of bosutinib 100 mg PO was administered after 5 days of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Brentuximab vedotin: (Moderate) Closely monitor for an increase in brentuximab-related adverse reactions, including peripheral neuropathy or gastrointestinal side effects, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE), one of the 3 components released from brentuximab vedotin, is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased MMAE exposure by approximately 34%.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Reduce the brexpiprazole dose to half the usual dose if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Administer one quarter of the usual brexpiprazole dose if the patient is also receiving a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor or is a known poor metabolizer of CYP2D6. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, adjust the brexpiprazole dosage to its original level. Brexpiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors increased the exposure of brexpiprazole compared to use of brexpiprazole alone.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with ensitrelvir if possible due to increased plasma exposure of brigatinib; an increase in brigatinib-related adverse reactions may occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of brigatinib by approximately 50% without breaking tablets (i.e., from 180 mg to 90 mg; from 90 mg to 60 mg). Brigatinib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of brigatinib by 101%.
Bromocriptine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bromocriptine and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased bromocriptine exposure which may increase the risk for bromocriptine-related adverse reactions. Bromocriptine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide and ensitrelvir due to the potential for increased budesonide exposure. Use caution with inhaled forms of budesonide as systemic exposure to the corticosteroid may also increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In the presence of another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the systemic exposure to oral budesonide was increased by 8-fold.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide and ensitrelvir due to the potential for increased budesonide exposure. Use caution with inhaled forms of budesonide as systemic exposure to the corticosteroid may also increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In the presence of another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the systemic exposure to oral budesonide was increased by 8-fold.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide and ensitrelvir due to the potential for increased budesonide exposure. Use caution with inhaled forms of budesonide as systemic exposure to the corticosteroid may also increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In the presence of another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the systemic exposure to oral budesonide was increased by 8-fold.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and ensitrelvir can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when ensitrelvir is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping ensitrelvir, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and ensitrelvir can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when ensitrelvir is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping ensitrelvir, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
busPIRone: (Moderate) A low dose of buspirone used cautiously is recommended when coadministered with ensitrelvir. If a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage of buspirone, a dose adjustment of buspirone may be necessary to avoid adverse events attributable to buspirone. Administering ensitrelvir with buspirone may increase buspirone concentration and risk for adverse events. Buspirone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the buspirone AUC by 19-fold with an increased incidence of buspirone-related adverse effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ensitrelvir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ensitrelvir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ensitrelvir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ensitrelvir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Cabazitaxel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cabazitaxel with ensitrelvir if possible due to increased cabazitaxel exposure. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of cabazitaxel by 25%. Cabazitaxel is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased cabazitaxel exposure by 25%.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cabozantinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cabozantinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased cabozantinib exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of cabozantinib. For patients taking cabozantinib tablets, reduce the dose of cabozantinib by 20 mg; for patients taking cabozantinib capsules, reduce the dose of cabozantinib by 40 mg. Cabozantinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased cabozantinib exposure by 1.4-fold.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capivasertib with ensitrelvir due to increased capivasertib exposure which may increase the risk for capivasertib-related adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the dose of capivasertib to 320 mg PO twice daily for 4 days followed by 3 days off; monitor for adverse reactions. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of capivasertib by up to 1.7-fold.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
carBAMazepine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and carbamazepine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Carbamazepine exposure may also increase. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Cariprazine: (Major) A cariprazine dosage reduction may be required during concomitant use with ensitrelvir. Cariprazine dosage modification recommendations vary by indication, previous exposure to cariprazine, and age. When initiating cariprazine in adults receiving ensitrelvir, reduce the cariprazine starting dose to 0.5 mg PO once daily; in adults with schizophrenia or bipolar mania, the cariprazine dose may be increased to 0.75 mg PO once daily, if needed, based on clinical response. Avoid initiating cariprazine in pediatric patients receiving ensitrelvir. When adding ensitrelvir to a stable dose of cariprazine, reduce the cariprazine dosage: from 1.5 mg or 3 mg once daily to 0.5 mg once daily, from 4.5 or 6 mg once daily to 0.75 mg once daily. Concomitant use increases cariprazine exposure and the risk for cariprazine-related adverse effects. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased cariprazine overall exposure by 2-fold.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ensitrelvir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ceritinib with ensitrelvir due to increased ceritinib exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dose of ceritinib by approximately one-third, rounded to the nearest multiple of 150 mg and monitor for ceritinib-related adverse reactions. After ensitrelvir is discontinued, resume the dose of ceritinib taken prior to initiating ensitrelvir. Ceritinib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ceritinib exposure by 2.9-fold.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlordiazepoxide-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of chlordiazepoxide if necessary. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlordiazepoxide-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of chlordiazepoxide if necessary. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlordiazepoxide-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of chlordiazepoxide if necessary. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ensitrelvir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ensitrelvir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cilostazol: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with ensitrelvir and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Cinacalcet: (Moderate) Monitor for cinacalcet-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ensitrelvir and adjust dosage as appropriate based on response. Concomitant use may increase cinacalcet exposure. Cinacalcet is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased cinacalcet overall exposure by 127%.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and ensitrelvir; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in clindamycin-related adverse reactions with coadministration of ensitrelvir as concurrent use may increase clindamycin exposure. Clindamycin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for increased sedation and respiratory depression if clonazepam is coadministered with ensitrelvir; adjust the dose of clonazepam if necessary. The systemic exposure of clonazepam may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Clonazepam is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration of clorazepate with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase clorazepate exposure. Clorazepate is a prodrug whose active metabolite (N-desmethyldiazepam) is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with ensitrelvir and monitor for adverse reactions. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ensitrelvir with cobimetinib due to the increased risk for cobimetinib-related adverse reactions. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased cobimetinib exposure by 6.7-fold.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ensitrelvir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ensitrelvir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ensitrelvir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ensitrelvir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ensitrelvir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ensitrelvir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ensitrelvir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ensitrelvir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ensitrelvir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ensitrelvir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ensitrelvir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ensitrelvir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with other dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitors has been observed to increase colchicine overall exposure by 3- to 4-fold.
Conivaptan: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of conivaptan and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the potential for increased conivaptan exposure. Conivaptan is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of oral conivaptan by 11-fold.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Copanlisib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of copanlisib and ensitrelvir if possible; increased copanlisib exposure may occur. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the copanlisib dose to 45 mg and monitor patients for copanlisib-related adverse events (e.g., hypertension, infection, and skin rash). Copanlisib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of crizotinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased crizotinib exposure which may increase the risk for crizotinib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, a crizotinib dosage reduction is required; specific dosage adjustment recommendations are dependent on age, indication, and body surface area (BSA). For adult patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) or inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMT), decrease the crizotinib dose to 250 mg once daily. For pediatric patients or young adults with anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) or IMT, BSA-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Crizotinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors has been observed to increase crizotinib overall exposure by 57% to 216%.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dabrafenib and ensitrelvir due to increased dabrafenib exposure. If another agent cannot be substituted and coadministration of these agents is unavoidable, monitor patients closely for dabrafenib adverse reactions including skin toxicity, ocular toxicity, and cardiotoxicity. Dabrafenib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the dabrafenib AUC by 71%, hydroxy-dabrafenib AUC by 82%, and desmethyl-dabrafenib AUC by 68%.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Major) Limit the dose of saxagliptin to 2.5 mg PO once daily when administered with ensitrelvir due to significantly increased saxagliptin exposure. Saxagliptin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the saxagliptin AUC up to 3.7-fold.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daraxonrasib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased daraxonrasib exposure which may increase the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased daraxonrasib overall exposure by 5.1-fold.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daridorexant and ensitrelvir. Concomitant use may increase daridorexant exposure and the risk for daridorexant-related adverse effects. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased daridorexant overall exposure by over 400%.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with ensitrelvir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darolutamide: (Moderate) Monitor patients more frequently for darolutamide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary due to the risk of increased darolutamide exposure; decrease the dose of darolutamide for grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions or for otherwise intolerable adverse reactions. Darolutamide is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure and peak of darolutamide by 1.7-fold and 1.4-fold, respectively.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased darunavir-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir. Darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for increased darunavir-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir. Darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for increased darunavir-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir. Darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dasatinib and ensitrelvir due to the potential for increased dasatinib exposure and subsequent toxicity including QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider a dasatinib dose reduction to 40 mg PO daily if original dose was 140 mg daily, 20 mg PO daily if original dose was 100 mg daily, or 20 mg PO daily if original dose was 70 mg daily. Stop dasatinib during use of ensitrelvir in patients receiving dasatinib 60 mg or 40 mg PO daily. If dasatinib is not tolerated after dose reduction, either discontinue ensitrelvir or stop dasatinib until ensitrelvir is discontinued. Allow a washout of approximately 1 week after ensitrelvir is stopped before increasing the dasatinib dose or reinitiating dasatinib. Dasatinib is a CYP3A substrate that has the potential to prolong the QT interval; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of dasatinib by 5-fold.
Deflazacort: (Major) Decrease deflazacort dose to one third of the recommended dosage when coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may significantly increase concentrations of 21-desDFZ, the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in an increased risk of toxicity. Deflazacort is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A. Administration of deflazacort with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, increased total exposure to 21-desDFZ by about 3-fold.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for steroid-related adverse reactions if coadministration of ensitrelvir with dexamethasone is necessary, due to increased dexamethasone exposure; Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression could potentially occur with long-term use. Consider the use of alternative corticosteroids such as prednisone/prednisolone, whose concentrations are less affected by strong CYP3A inhibitors, especially for long-term use. Dexamethasone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase dexamethasone overall exposure by 1.6- to 3.5-fold.
Dexlansoprazole: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of dexlansoprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with ensitrelvir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Dexlansoprazole is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and quinidine is contraindicated due to the risk for increased quinidine exposure which may increase the risk for quinidine-related adverse reactions, such as cardiac arrhythmias.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for diazoxide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase diazoxide exposure. Diazoxide is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor was predicted to increase diazoxide overall exposure by 1.1- to 2-fold.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and ensitrelvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase digoxin overall exposure by 1.3-fold.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate if coadministration of diltiazem with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may result in elevated diltiazem concentrations. Diltiazem is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with other strong CYP3A inhibitors.
DOCEtaxel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of docetaxel with ensitrelvir if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of docetaxel. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for docetaxel-related adverse reactions and consider a 50% dose reduction of docetaxel. Docetaxel is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased docetaxel exposure by 2.2-fold.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Clinical monitoring for donepezil-related adverse effects, such as GI or cholinergic effects, is recommended during coadministration of ensitrelvir. The plasma concentrations of donepezil may be elevated when administered concurrently with ensitrelvir. Donepezil is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Clinical monitoring for donepezil-related adverse effects, such as GI or cholinergic effects, is recommended during coadministration of ensitrelvir. The plasma concentrations of donepezil may be elevated when administered concurrently with ensitrelvir. Donepezil is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Doravirine: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ensitrelvir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ensitrelvir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ensitrelvir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension if coadministration of doxazosin and ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may result in increased doxazosin exposure. Doxazosin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with ensitrelvir due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of CYP3A inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with ensitrelvir due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of CYP3A inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence) of dronabinol if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dronedarone exposure and QT prolongation. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Dutasteride: (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Dutasteride is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Although the effect of strong CYP3A inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied, dutasteride exposure may increase.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ensitrelvir is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A, such as ensitrelvir, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Dutasteride is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Although the effect of strong CYP3A inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied, dutasteride exposure may increase.
Duvelisib: (Major) Reduce duvelisib dose to 15 mg PO twice daily and monitor for increased toxicity when coadministered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of duvelisib. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The increase in exposure to duvelisib is estimated to be approximately 2-fold when used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as ensitrelvir.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of ensitrelvir. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of ensitrelvir; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elacestrant and ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased elacestrant exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elacestrant overall exposure by 5.3-fold.
Elagolix: (Major) Concomitant use of elagolix 200 mg twice daily and ensitrelvir for more than 1 month is not recommended. Limit concomitant use of elagolix 150 mg once daily and ensitrelvir to 6 months. Coadministration may increase elagolix exposure. Elagolix is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A. Coadministration of elagolix with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of elagolix by 120%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Concomitant use of elagolix 200 mg twice daily and ensitrelvir for more than 1 month is not recommended. Limit concomitant use of elagolix 150 mg once daily and ensitrelvir to 6 months. Coadministration may increase elagolix exposure. Elagolix is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A. Coadministration of elagolix with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of elagolix by 120%. (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in elbasvir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Elbasvir is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elbasvir exposure by almost 2-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in grazoprevir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Grazoprevir is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased grazoprevir exposure by 3-fold.
Eletriptan: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of ensitrelvir due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of eletriptan by 6-fold.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) If ensitrelvir and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor to twice a week in the morning, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4) when coadministered with ensitrelvir; omit the evening dose of ivacaftor. Coadministration may increase elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. Elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elexacaftor exposure by 2.8- fold, tezacaftor exposure by 4.5-fold, and ivacaftor exposure by 15.6-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of tezacaftor; ivacaftor when coadministered with ensitrelvir; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, give one tezacaftor/ivacaftor combination tablet twice a week, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tezacaftor and ivacaftor exposure 4- and 15.6-fold, respectively.
Eliglustat: (Major) In intermediate or poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (IMs or PMs), coadministration of ensitrelvir and eliglustat is contraindicated. In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs), coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. The coadministration of eliglustat with both ensitrelvir and a moderate or strong CYP2D6 inhibitor is contraindicated in all patients. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors such as ensitrelvir increases eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias); this risk is the highest in CYP2D6 IMs and PMs because a larger portion of the eliglustat dose is metabolized via CYP3A.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and encorafenib is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Encorafenib exposure may also increase. If concomitant use is necessary, an encorafenib dosage reduction is required: reduce a daily dose of 450 mg to 150 mg, reduce the daily dose to 75 mg for all other dosages. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor and encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased encorafenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Enfortumab vedotin: (Moderate) Closely monitor for signs of enfortumab vedotin-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase unconjugated monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) exposure, which may increase the incidence or severity of enfortumab-vedotin toxicities. MMAE, the microtubule-disrupting component of enfortumab vedotin, is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; ensitrelvir is a dual P-gp/strong CYP3A inhibitor. Based on physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling predictions, concomitant use of enfortumab vedotin with another dual P-gp/strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the exposure of unconjugated MMAE by 38%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with ensitrelvir due to increased entrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for entrectinib-related adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary in adults and pediatric patients 2 years and older, reduce the dose of entrectinib (600 mg/day to 100 mg/day; 400 mg or 300 mg/day to 50 mg/day; 200 mg/day to 50 mg every other day) and limit coadministration to 14 days or less. For pediatric patients with a starting dose less than 200 mg, avoid coadministration. Entrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of entrectinib by 6-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and enzalutamide is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Eplerenone: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with ensitrelvir due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with ensitrelvir if possible due to the increased risk of erlotinib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable and severe reactions occur, reduce the dose of erlotinib by 50 mg decrements. Erlotinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erlotinib exposure by 67%.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for esomeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase esomeprazole exposure. Esomeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for estazolam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Estazolam is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted between estazolam and inhibitors of CYP3A.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Eszopiclone: (Major) The total dose of eszopiclone should not exceed 2 mg when administered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase eszopiclone exposure resulting in increased risk of next-day psychomotor or memory impairment and decreased ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. CYP3A is a primary metabolic pathway for eszopiclone; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased eszopiclone exposure by 2.2-fold.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Etonogestrel: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Etrasimod: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and ensitrelvir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in etravirine-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Etravirine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased etravirine exposure by 1.4-fold.
Everolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of everolimus with ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased everolimus-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable in patients receiving everolimus for either kidney or liver transplant, closely monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Everolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of everolimus by 15-fold.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of simvastatin and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, and acute renal failure. Concomitant use my increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fedratinib with ensitrelvir as concurrent use may increase fedratinib exposure. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of fedratinib to 200 mg PO once daily. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, increase the fedratinib dose as follows: 300 mg PO once daily for 2 weeks and then 400 mg PO once daily thereafter as tolerated. Fedratinib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased fedratinib exposure by 3-fold.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and ensitrelvir should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and half-life by approximately 8-fold and 2-fold, respectively.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fesoterodine: (Major) Limit the dose of fesoterodine to 4 mg once daily in adults and pediatric patients weighing more than 35 kg if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Avoid use of fesoterodine and ensitrelvir in pediatric patients weighing 25 to 35 kg. Concurrent use may increase fesoterodine exposure. Fesoterodine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor led to approximately a doubling of the overall exposure of 5-hydroxymethyl tolterodine (5-HMT), the active metabolite of fesoterodine.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and ensitrelvir and monitor for decreased fexinidazole efficacy if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and ensitrelvir for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of ensitrelvir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as ensitrelvir, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Finerenone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of finerenone and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased finerenone exposure which may increase the risk for finerenone-related adverse reactions, such as hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase finerenone overall exposure by over 400%.
Flibanserin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of flibanserin and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to increased flibanserin concentrations, which can cause severe hypotension and syncope. If initiating flibanserin following the use of ensitrelvir, start flibanserin at least 2 weeks after the last dose of ensitrelvir. If initiating ensitrelvir following flibanserin use, begin therapy at least 2 days after the last dose of flibanserin. In cases where the benefit of initiating ensitrelvir therapy within 2 days of stopping flibanserin clearly outweighs the risk of flibanserin-related hypotension and syncope, monitor the patient for signs of hypotension and syncope. Flibanserin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Fluticasone: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and ensitrelvir is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with strong inhibitors increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure resulting in 45% to 86% decreases in serum cortisol AUC. A strong inhibitor increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of salmeterol with ensitrelvir. Concomitant use increases salmeterol exposure and may increase the incidence and severity of salmeterol-related adverse effects. Signs and symptoms of excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation commonly include tachyarrhythmias, hypertension, and tremor. Salmeterol is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased salmeterol overall exposure 16-fold mainly due to increased bioavailability of the swallowed portion of the dose. (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and ensitrelvir is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with strong inhibitors increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure resulting in 45% to 86% decreases in serum cortisol AUC. A strong inhibitor increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and ensitrelvir is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with strong inhibitors increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure resulting in 45% to 86% decreases in serum cortisol AUC. A strong inhibitor increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and ensitrelvir is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with strong inhibitors increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure resulting in 45% to 86% decreases in serum cortisol AUC. A strong inhibitor increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use during ensitrelvir treatment. Concomitant use may alter the exposure of some cannabinoids and increase the risk for adverse reactions. The cannabinoids delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are CYP3A substrates and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of a cannabinoid product containing THC and CBD at an approximate 1:1 ratio with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased THC, 11-OH-THC, and CBD peak exposure by 1.3-, 3-, and 1.9-fold respectively.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for steroid-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mometasone with ensitrelvir is necessary, due to increased mometasone exposure; Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression could potentially occur with long-term use. Mometasone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased fosamprenavir toxicity if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of fosamprenavir. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and fosphenytoin is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Futibatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of futibatinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased futibatinib exposure which may increase the risk for futibatinib-related adverse effects. Futibatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased futibatinib overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Gefitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Gepirone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased gepirone exposure which may increase the risk for gepirone-related adverse reactions, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepotidacin and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased gepotidacin exposure which may increase the risk for gepotidacin-related adverse reactions. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepotidacin overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Consider an alternative to ensitrelvir during treatment with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase gilteritinib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib adverse reactions. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Glasdegib: (Major) Consider an alternative to ensitrelvir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glecaprevir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glecaprevir exposure. Glecaprevir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Monitor for increased granisetron-related adverse effects, such as gastrointestinal or CNS effects, if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase granisetron exposure. Granisetron is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
guanFACINE: (Major) If coadministration of ensitrelvir with extended-release (ER) guanfacine is necessary, reduce the guanfacine dosage to half of the recommended dose. Specific recommendations for immediate-release (IR) guanfacine are not available. Monitor patients closely for adverse effects including hypotension, drowsiness, lethargy, and bradycardia. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, the guanfacine ER dosage should be increased back to the recommended dose. Guanfacine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; ensitrelvir may significantly increase guanfacine plasma concentrations.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in haloperidol-related side effects, such as QT prolongation and extrapyramidal symptoms, if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of haloperidol. Haloperidol is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if hydrocortisone is used with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase hydrocortisone exposure. Hydrocortisone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Other strong CYP3A inhibitors have been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Ibrexafungerp: (Major) Decrease the ibrexafungerp dose to 150 mg PO every 12 hours for 1 day if administered concurrently with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may result in increased ibrexafungerp exposure and toxicity. Ibrexafungerp is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of ibrexafungerp by 5.8-fold.
Ibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibrutinib and ensitrelvir; ibrutinib plasma concentrations may increase resulting in severe ibrutinib toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, bleeding, infection). If short-term use of ensitrelvir is necessary (e.g., 7 days or less), interrupt ibrutinib treatment. Resume ibrutinib at the previous dose when ensitrelvir is discontinued. Ibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased ibrutinib exposure by 5.7-fold to 24-fold.
Idelalisib: (Major) Coadministration of idelalisib with ensitrelvir may increase idelalisib exposure; use alternative agents if possible. If concomitant use is required, monitor patients frequently for signs and symptoms of idelalisib-related adverse reactions (e.g., hepatotoxicity, diarrhea, neutropenia, and infection). Idelalisib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased idelalisib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of ifosfamide if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Ifosfamide is metabolized by CYP3A to its active alkylating metabolites and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of these active metabolites, decreasing the effectiveness of ifosfamide treatment.
Iloperidone: (Major) Reduce the iloperidone dose by one-half if coadministered with ensitrelvir. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, increase the iloperidone dose to the previous level. Increased iloperidone exposure may occur with concurrent use. Iloperidone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of iloperidone and its metabolites P88 and P95 by 57%, 55% and 35%, respectively.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in imatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Imatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imatinib exposure by 1.4-fold.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and ensitrelvir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of infigratinib by 622%.
Irinotecan Liposomal: (Major) Avoid administration of ensitrelvir during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 1 week prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are CYP3A substrates; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase systemic exposure to both irinotecan and SN-38.
Irinotecan: (Major) Avoid administration of ensitrelvir during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 1 week prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are CYP3A substrates; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase systemic exposure to both irinotecan and SN-38.
Isavuconazonium: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of isavuconazonium with ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the risk of increased isavuconazole exposure. Isavuconazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased isavuconazole exposure by 422%.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Istradefylline: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with ensitrelvir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Istradefylline is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong CYP3A inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for itraconazole-related adverse reactions during coadministration with ensitrelvir; an itraconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase itraconazole exposure. Itraconazole is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ivabradine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ensitrelvir with ivabradine is contraindicated due to an increase in plasma concentrations of ivabradine, which may exacerbate bradycardia and conduction disturbances. Ivabradine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivabradine exposure by 7.7-fold.
Ivacaftor: (Major) If ensitrelvir and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with ensitrelvir due to increased plasma concentrations of ivosidenib, which increases the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ivosidenib to 250 mg PO once daily. Monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes, correcting any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, wait at least 5 half-lives of ensitrelvir before increasing the dose of ivosidenib to the recommended dose of 500 mg PO once daily. Ivosidenib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivosidenib single-dose AUC to 269% of control.
Ixabepilone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and ensitrelvir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid use of ensitrelvir for 2 weeks before and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ketoconazole exposure and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for lansoprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase lansoprazole exposure. Lansoprazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for lansoprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase lansoprazole exposure. Lansoprazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lapatinib with ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dose of lapatinib to 500 mg PO once daily. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, increase lapatinib to the indicated dose after a washout period of approximately 1 week. Lapatinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lapatinib exposure by 3.6-fold and increased the half-life of lapatinib by 1.7-fold.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ensitrelvir with larotrectinib due to the risk of increased larotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of larotrectinib by 50%. After ensitrelvir has been discontinued for 3 to 5 elimination half-lives, resume the larotrectinib dose taken prior to initiating ensitrelvir. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the larotrectinib AUC by 4.3-fold.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ensitrelvir with oral lefamulin due to increased lefamulin exposure; ensitrelvir may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of oral lefamulin by 165%; the exposure to intravenous lefamulin was increased by 31%.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and ensitrelvir as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the lemborexant overall exposure by up to 4.5-fold.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of leniolisib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased leniolisib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Leniolisib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased leniolisib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid use of ensitrelvir for 2 weeks before and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ketoconazole exposure and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Levomilnacipran: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase levomilnacipran exposure. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and lomitapide is contraindicated; if treatment with ensitrelvir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and ensitrelvir is contraindicated; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. Lonafarnib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of lonafarnib by 425%.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold, while coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold, while coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lopinavir-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lopinavir exposure. Lopinavir is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with ensitrelvir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of ensitrelvir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Lovastatin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lovastatin and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the risk of elevated plasma concentrations of lovastatin leading to myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Lovastatin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lovastatin exposure by 11 to 36-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor exposure may also increase. If concomitant use is necessary, a lumacaftor; ivacaftor dosage adjustment is not required when ensitrelvir is started in a patient already taking lumacaftor; ivacaftor. However, if lumacaftor; ivacaftor is initiated in a patient already taking ensitrelvir, reduce the dose of lumacaftor; ivacaftor to 1 tablet PO daily or 1 packet of oral granules every other day for the first week of treatment, and then increase to the usual recommended daily dose. This dosage adjustment is also necessary if lumacaftor; ivacaftor therapy has been interrupted for more than 1 week and re-initiated while the patient is taking ensitrelvir. The 1-week lead-in period at the lower lumacaftor; ivacaftor dosage allows for lumacaftor's induction of CYP3A to reach steady state. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate, and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Although ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, net ivacaftor exposure at steady state is not expected to exceed that achieved with ivacaftor monotherapy because of lumacaftor's CYP3A induction. In pharmacokinetic studies, coadministration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 4.3-fold. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%. (Major) If ensitrelvir and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor exposure may also increase. If concomitant use is necessary, a lumacaftor; ivacaftor dosage adjustment is not required when ensitrelvir is started in a patient already taking lumacaftor; ivacaftor. However, if lumacaftor; ivacaftor is initiated in a patient already taking ensitrelvir, reduce the dose of lumacaftor; ivacaftor to 1 tablet PO daily or 1 packet of oral granules every other day for the first week of treatment, and then increase to the usual recommended daily dose. This dosage adjustment is also necessary if lumacaftor; ivacaftor therapy has been interrupted for more than 1 week and re-initiated while the patient is taking ensitrelvir. The 1-week lead-in period at the lower lumacaftor; ivacaftor dosage allows for lumacaftor's induction of CYP3A to reach steady state. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate, and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Although ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, net ivacaftor exposure at steady state is not expected to exceed that achieved with ivacaftor monotherapy because of lumacaftor's CYP3A induction. In pharmacokinetic studies, coadministration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 4.3-fold. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Lumateperone: (Major) Reduce the dose of lumateperone to 10.5 mg once daily if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase lumateperone exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lumateperone exposure by approximately 4-fold.
Lurasidone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lurasidone with ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of lurasidone. Lurasidone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lurasidone exposure by 9-fold.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lurbinectedin and ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased lurbinectedin exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of lurbinectedin by 50%. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of lurbinectedin by 2.7-fold.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with ensitrelvir is necessary. Macitentan is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with ensitrelvir is necessary. Macitentan is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and ensitrelvir for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of ensitrelvir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as ensitrelvir, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Maraviroc: (Major) Reduce the dose of maraviroc when coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary, regardless of whether the patient is receiving a concomitant strong CYP3A inducer. The effect of ensitrelvir on maraviroc exposure is expected to exceed that of the inducer and overall, increased maraviroc concentrations are expected. Coadministration of maraviroc with ensitrelvir is contraindicated in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/min. Recommendations for reducing the maraviroc dose when administered with ensitrelvir (with or without a concomitant CYP3A inducer) are: adults and children weighing 40 kg or more: 150 mg PO twice daily; children weighing 30 to 39 kg: 100 mg PO twice daily; children weighing 20 to 29 kg: 75 mg PO twice daily (or 80 mg PO twice daily for solution); children weighing 10 to 19 kg: 50 mg PO twice daily. Maraviroc is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ensitrelvir therapy. Avoid initiation of ensitrelvir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ensitrelvir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with ensitrelvir can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Major) Limit the dose of saxagliptin to 2.5 mg PO once daily when administered with ensitrelvir due to significantly increased saxagliptin exposure. Saxagliptin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the saxagliptin AUC up to 3.7-fold.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with ensitrelvir can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methohexital: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Methylergonovine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ensitrelvir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if methylprednisolone is used with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of methylprednisolone. Methylprednisolone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Other strong CYP3A inhibitors have been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%.
Midazolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of midazolam with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase midazolam overall exposure by 6.8-fold.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and ensitrelvir as significantly increased exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites may occur resulting in increased toxicity. Consider an alternative agent to replace ensitrelvir. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity (e.g., gastrointestinal toxicity, hematologic toxicity, bleeding, and infection), particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and the first week of each cycle of midostaurin therapy for acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The AUC values of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 increased by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively, when midostaurin was administered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Caution is advised when administering ensitrelvir with mifepristone for pregnancy termination. When mifepristone is used in the treatment of Cushing's syndrome, coadministration with ensitrelvir should be done only when necessary, and in such cases the dose of mifepristone should be limited to a maximum dose of 900 mg per day. In a patient already receiving ensitrelvir, initiate mifepristone at a dose of 300 mg and titrate to a maximum of 900 mg if clinically indicated. If therapy with ensitrelvir is initiated in a patient already receiving mifepristone 300 mg, dosage adjustments are not required. If therapy with ensitrelvir is initiated in a patient already receiving mifepristone 600 mg, reduce dose of mifepristone to 300 mg and titrate to a maximum of 600 mg if clinically indicated. If therapy with ensitrelvir is initiated in a patient receiving already receiving 900 mg, reduce dose of mifepristone to 600 mg and titrate to a maximum of 900 mg if clinically indicated. In a patient receiving 1,200 mg, reduce the mifepristone dose to 900 mg. Mifepristone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mirtazapine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Mirtazapine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of a single dose of mirtazapine by approximately 40% and 50%, respectively.
Mirvetuximab Soravtansine: (Moderate) Closely monitor for mirvetuximab soravtansine-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. DM4, the cytotoxic component of mirvetuximab soravtansine, is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase unconjugated DM4 exposure.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with ensitrelvir due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Mitotane: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and mitotane is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and ensitrelvir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in modafinil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Modafinil has multiple pathways for metabolism including non-CYP-related pathways; however, due to partial involvement of the CYP3A enzymes, concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors such as ensitrelvir could increase plasma concentrations of modafinil.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for steroid-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mometasone with ensitrelvir is necessary, due to increased mometasone exposure; Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression could potentially occur with long-term use. Mometasone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Naloxegol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of naloxegol with ensitrelvir is contraindicated. Naloxegol is metabolized primarily by CYP3A. Strong CYP3A inhibitors, such as ensitrelvir, can significantly increase exposure to naloxegol which may precipitate opioid withdrawal symptoms such as hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, irritability, and yawning.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of nab-paclitaxel with ensitrelvir is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A inhibitors.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for esomeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase esomeprazole exposure. Esomeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of nelfinavir if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentrations of nelfinavir. Nelfinavir is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of nelfinavir by 35%.
Nerandomilast: (Major) Decrease the nerandomilast dose to 9 mg twice daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nerandomilast exposure and the risk for nerandomilast-related adverse effects. Nerandomilast is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased nerandomilast overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensitrelvir with neratinib due to an increased risk of neratinib-related toxicity. Neratinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased neratinib exposure by 381%; concomitant use with other strong inhibitors of CYP3A may also increase neratinib concentrations.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in netupitant-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Netupitant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased netupitant exposure by 140%; however, no dosage adjustment is necessary.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in nevirapine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Nevirapine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased nevirapine exposure by 100%; concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor may also increase nevirapine exposure.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Careful monitoring and dose adjustment of nifedipine may be necessary if administered with ensitrelvir as nifedipine exposure and adverse effects may be increased. Consider initiating nifedipine at the lowest dose. Nifedipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nilotinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased nilotinib exposure which may increase the risk for nilotinib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, a nilotinib dosage reduction is required; specific management recommendations vary by indication and dosage form. For patients receiving nilotinib for resistant or intolerant Ph+ CML, reduce the nilotinib once daily dose to: 300 mg for capsules, 142 mg for tablets, 120 mg for oral disintegrating tablets. For patients receiving nilotinib for newly diagnosed Ph+ CML, reduce the nilotinib once daily dose to: 200 mg for capsules, 95 mg for tablets, 80 mg for oral disintegrating. Nilotinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased nilotinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
niMODipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with ensitrelvir due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased nirogacestat exposure which may increase the risk for nirogacestat-related adverse effects. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase nirogacestat overall exposure by 3.46- to 8.2-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with ensitrelvir due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Norethindrone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Norgestrel: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased olaparib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of olaparib to 100 mg twice daily; the original dose may be resumed 3 to 5 elimination half-lives after ensitrelvir is discontinued. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; concomitant use may increase olaparib exposure. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the olaparib AUC by 170%.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and ensitrelvir is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and ensitrelvir may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for steroid-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mometasone with ensitrelvir is necessary, due to increased mometasone exposure; Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression could potentially occur with long-term use. Mometasone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ensitrelvir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifabutin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary; in some cases, the dose of rifabutin may need to be decreased. Rifabutin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors may significantly increase the plasma concentration of rifabutin. (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor for orforglipron-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary; an orforglipron dosage reduction may be required. When used together, the maximum daily dosage of orforglipron is reduced to 9 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase orforglipron exposure. Orforglipron is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Reduce the dose of osilodrostat by half during coadministration of ensitrelvir; concurrent use may increase osilodrostat exposure and the risk of osilodrostat-related adverse reactions. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ospemifene: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ospemifene-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Ospemifene is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong inhibitor increased ospemifene systemic exposure by 1.4-fold.
Oveporexton: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of oveporexton and ensitrelvir is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase oveporexton exposure and the risk for oveporexton-related adverse reactions. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased oveporexton exposure by 7.4-fold.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in oxybutynin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Oxybutynin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mean oxybutynin plasma concentrations by approximately 2-fold.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with strong CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of paclitaxel with ensitrelvir is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A inhibitors.
Pacritinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Palbociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of palbociclib with ensitrelvir; significantly increased plasma exposure of palbociclib may occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of palbociclib to 75 mg PO once daily and monitor for increased adverse reactions. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, increase the palbociclib dose (after 3 to 5 half-lives of ensitrelvir) to the dose used before initiation of ensitrelvir. Palbociclib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of palbociclib by 87%.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased palovarotene exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased palovarotene overall exposure by 3-fold.
Panobinostat: (Major) Reduce the starting dose of panobinostat to 10 mg when coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase systemic exposure of panobinostat. Panobinostat is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of panobinostat by 73%.
Paricalcitol: (Moderate) Monitor plasma PTH and serum calcium and phosphorous concentrations if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with both paricalcitol and ensitrelvir, or during periods of dose titration. If hypercalcemia occurs, the dose of paricalcitol should be reduced or withheld until these parameters are normalized. Paricalcitol is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor approximately doubled the exposure of paricalcitol.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and ensitrelvir due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure which may increase the risk for pazopanib-related adverse effects. Pazopanib is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor. Concurrent use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pazopanib by 1.7-fold.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased pemigatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pemigatinib to 9 mg PO once daily if original dose was 13.5 mg per day and to 4.5 mg PO once daily if original dose was 9 mg per day. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, resume the original pemigatinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of ensitrelvir. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pemigatinib exposure by 88%.
PENTobarbital: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pexidartinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased pexidartinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pexidartinib dosage as follows: 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg twice daily; 250 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg once daily. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, increase the pexidartinib dose to the original dose after 3 plasma half-lives of ensitrelvir. Pexidartinib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pexidartinib exposure by 70%.
PHENobarbital: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Phenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and phenytoin is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pimozide and ensitrelvir is contraindicated. Coadministration may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is metabolized primarily through CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pirtobrutinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased pirtobrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pirtobrutinib dose by 50 mg. If the current pirtobrutinib dosage is 50 mg once daily, interrupt pirtobrutinib treatment for the duration of ensitrelvir use. Resume the previous dose of pirtobrutinib after ensitrelvir is discontinued for 5 half-lives. Pirtobrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pirtobrutinib overall exposure by 49%.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; ensitrelvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pivekimab sunirine: (Moderate) Monitor for pivekimab sunirine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to FGN849, the cytotoxic component of pivekimab sunirine. FGN849 is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Polatuzumab Vedotin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased polatuzumab vedotin toxicity during coadministration of ensitrelvir due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of polatuzumab vedotin, MMAE. MMAE is metabolized by CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Strong CYP3A inhibitors are predicted to increase the exposure of MMAE by 45%.
PONATinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ponatinib and ensitrelvir due to the potential for increased ponatinib exposure. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce the ponatinib dose to the next lower dose level (45 mg to 30 mg; 30 mg to 15 mg; 15 mg to 10 mg). If the patient is taking ponatinib 10 mg once daily prior to concurrent use, avoid the use of ensitrelvir and consider alternative therapy. After ensitrelvir has been discontinued for 3 to 5 half-lives, resume the dose of ponatinib that was tolerated prior to starting ensitrelvir. Ponatinib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the ponatinib AUC by 78%.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in posaconazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase posaconazole exposure. Posaconazole is a P-gp substrate; ensitrelvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensitrelvir and pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of pralsetinib to 200 mg once daily for patients taking a daily dose of 400 mg or 300 mg, and to 100 mg once daily for patients taking a daily dose of 200 mg. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a combined strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a combined strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 3.5-fold.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if prednisolone is used with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of prednisolone. Prednisolone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Other strong CYP3A inhibitors have been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if prednisone is used with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of prednisone. Prednisone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Other strong CYP3A inhibitors have been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%.
Primidone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with other dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitors has been observed to increase colchicine overall exposure by 3- to 4-fold.
Progesterone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Progestins: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with ensitrelvir; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and ensitrelvir with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in quazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary; reduce the dose of quazepam if clinically appropriate. Concurrent use may increase the concentrations of quazepam. Quazepam is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may significantly increase quetiapine exposure and related side effects. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, increase the quetiapine dose by 6-fold. Quetiapine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of quetiapine by approximately 6-fold.
quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and quinidine is contraindicated due to the risk for increased quinidine exposure which may increase the risk for quinidine-related adverse reactions, such as cardiac arrhythmias.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Monitor for quinine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase quinine exposure. Quinine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of quinine by 45%.
Quizartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensitrelvir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ramelteon-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Ramelteon is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ramelteon exposure by 84%.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ranolazine with ensitrelvir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ranolazine exposure and the risk for ranolazine-related adverse effects. Ranolazine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ranolazine exposure by 220%.
Regorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of regorafenib with ensitrelvir due to increased plasma concentrations of regorafenib and decreased plasma concentrations of the active metabolites M-2 and M-5, which may lead to increased toxicity. Regorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased regorafenib exposure by 33% and decreased exposure of M-2 and M-5 by 93% each.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral ensitrelvir. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer ensitrelvir at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of ensitrelvir is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral ensitrelvir. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer ensitrelvir at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of ensitrelvir is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) A dose reduction of repaglinide and increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Repaglinide is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased repaglinide exposure by up to 1.5-fold.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ensitrelvir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Retapamulin: (Moderate) Coadministration of retapamulin with strong CYP3A inhibitors, such as ensitrelvir, in patients younger than 24 months is not recommended. Systemic exposure of topically administered retapamulin may be higher in patients younger than 24 months than in patients 2 years and older. Retapamulin is a CYP3A substrate.
Revumenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased revumenib exposure which may increase the risk for revumenib-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, a revumenib dosage decrease is required; dosing recommendations vary by weight. For patients weighing 40 kg or more, reduce the starting dose to 160 mg PO twice daily or 110 mg PO twice daily for those requiring a dosage reduction for adverse reactions. For patients weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the starting dose to 95 mg/m2 PO twice daily or 65 mg/m2 PO twice daily for those requiring a dosage reduction for adverse reactions. See prescribing information for additional details regarding dosage form rounding with body surface area (BSA) based dosing. Revumenib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased revumenib overall exposure by 2- to 2.5-fold.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ribociclib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased ribociclib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects, including QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the daily dose of ribociclib to 200 mg for patients with early breast cancer and 400 mg for patients with advanced/metastatic breast cancer. Ribociclib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ribociclib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ribociclib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased ribociclib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects, including QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the daily dose of ribociclib to 200 mg for patients with early breast cancer and 400 mg for patients with advanced/metastatic breast cancer. Ribociclib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ribociclib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifabutin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary; in some cases, the dose of rifabutin may need to be decreased. Rifabutin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors may significantly increase the plasma concentration of rifabutin.
rifAMPin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and rifampin is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Rifapentine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and rifapentine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with ensitrelvir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure and the risk for rimegepant-related adverse effects. Rimegepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Riociguat: (Major) Consider a starting dose of 0.5 mg PO 3 times daily when initiating riociguat in patients receiving ensitrelvir; concurrent use may increase riociguat exposure. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension on initiation and during treatment with ensitrelvir. Consider a dose reduction in patients who may not tolerate the hypotensive effect of riociguat. Riociguat is a substrate of CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor
Ripretinib: (Moderate) Monitor patients more frequently for ripretinib-related adverse reactions if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite (DP-5439), which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Ripretinib and DP-5439 are metabolized by CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ripretinib and DP-5439 exposure by 99%.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rivaroxaban and ensitrelvir; significant increases in rivaroxaban exposure may occur which may increase the bleeding risk. Rivaroxaban is a substrate of CYP3A and the P-gp transporter and ensitrelvir is a dual P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of a single dose of rivaroxaban and another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the steady-state rivaroxaban AUC and Cmax by 150% and 60%, respectively. Similar increases in pharmacodynamic effects such as factor Xa inhibition and PT prolongation were also observed.
Roflumilast: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in roflumilast-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase roflumilast exposure. Roflumilast is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of roflumilast by 99%.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Monitor for toxicity related to increased romidepsin exposure and follow the dose modifications for toxicity during initial administration of romidepsin with ensitrelvir. Romidepsin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a pharmacokinetic drug interaction trial a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Ruxolitinib: (Major) Reduce the ruxolitinib dosage if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary in patients with myelofibrosis (MF) or polycythemia vera (PV). Dosage adjustments differ between immediate-release (IR) and extended-release (XR) ruxolitinib products. For MF, use a reduced starting dosage based on platelet count: for a platelet count of 100,000 cells/mm3 or more, reduce the starting dosage to 10 mg PO twice daily IR or 22 mg PO once daily XR; for a platelet count of 50,000 to 99,999 cells/mm3, change to 5 mg PO once daily IR. For PV, reduce the starting dosage to 5 mg PO twice daily IR or 11 mg PO once daily XR. For MF or PV patients on a stable dose of ruxolitinib, reduce the ruxolitinib dosage based on their current dose: for those on at least 10 mg PO twice daily IR or 22 mg PO once daily XR, reduce the dosage by 50%; for those on 5 mg PO twice daily IR, change to 5 mg PO once daily IR; for those on 5 mg PO once daily IR or 11 mg once daily XR, avoid the use of ensitrelvir or consider a ruxolitinib therapy interruption for the duration of ensitrelvir use. No dose adjustments are necessary for patients with graft-versus-host disease; however, monitor blood counts more frequently for ruxolitinib toxicity and adjust the ruxolitinib dosage as appropriate for adverse reactions. Concomitant use may increase ruxolitinib exposure and the risk for ruxolitinib-related adverse effects. Ruxolitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ruxolitinib overall exposure by 1.9-fold.
Salmeterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of salmeterol with ensitrelvir. Concomitant use increases salmeterol exposure and may increase the incidence and severity of salmeterol-related adverse effects. Signs and symptoms of excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation commonly include tachyarrhythmias, hypertension, and tremor. Salmeterol is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased salmeterol overall exposure 16-fold mainly due to increased bioavailability of the swallowed portion of the dose.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in saquinavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentrations of saquinavir. Saquinavir is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
sAXagliptin: (Major) Limit the dose of saxagliptin to 2.5 mg PO once daily when administered with ensitrelvir due to significantly increased saxagliptin exposure. Saxagliptin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the saxagliptin AUC up to 3.7-fold.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sebetralstat and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased sebetralstat exposure which may increase the risk for sebetralstat-related adverse effects. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sebetralstat overall exposure by 5.2-fold.
Secobarbital: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ensitrelvir with progestins is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progestins may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Progestins are metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Seladelpar: (Minor) Monitor patients who are known CYP2C9 poor metabolizers more frequently for an increase in seladelpar-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use in these patients may increase seladelpar exposure. Seladelpar is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased selpercatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions, including QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the dose of selpercatinib (160 mg twice daily to 80 mg twice daily; 120 mg twice daily to 40 mg twice daily; 80 mg twice daily to 40 mg twice daily; 40 mg three times daily to 40 mg once daily). Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, such as additional electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased selpercatinib exposure by 2.33-fold.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of selumetinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased selumetinib exposure which may increase the risk for selumetinib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of selumetinib to 20 mg/m2 PO twice daily if the original dose was 25 mg/m2 twice daily and 15 mg/m2 PO twice daily if the original dose was 20 mg/m2 twice daily. Selumetinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased selumetinib exposure by 1.5-fold.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and ensitrelvir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Sildenafil: (Major) Coadministration with ensitrelvir is not recommended in patients receiving sildenafil for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). When sildenafil is used for erectile dysfunction, consider a starting dose of 25 mg for patients receiving ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase sildenafil plasma concentrations resulting in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Sildenafil is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased the sildenafil overall exposure between 3- and 11-fold.
Silodosin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of silodosin resulting in an increase in the risk for treatment-related adverse reactions. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased silodosin exposure by 2.9-fold to 3.2-fold.
Simvastatin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of simvastatin and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, and acute renal failure. Concomitant use my increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and ensitrelvir may increase siponimod exposure. If the patient is also receiving a drug regimen containing a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor, use of siponimod is not recommended due to a significant increase in siponimod exposure. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A dual inhibitor led to a 2-fold increase in the AUC of siponimod.
Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased sirolimus overall exposure by 10.9-fold.
Solifenacin: (Major) Do not exceed a dose of 5 mg per day of solifenacin in patients receiving ensitrelvir as concurrent use may increase solifenacin exposure. Solifenacin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased solifenacin exposure by 2.7-fold.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with ensitrelvir due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and ensitrelvir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Sparsentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and ensitrelvir. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and St. John's wort is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if ensitrelvir must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor like ensitrelvir can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ensitrelvir with sunitinib if possible due to increased sunitinib exposure, which may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor the QT interval more frequently and consider reducing the daily dose of sunitinib to a minimum of 37.5 mg for patients with GIST or RCC, and to a minimum of 25 mg for patients with pNET. Sunitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased exposure to sunitinib and its primary active metabolite by 51%.
Suvorexant: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and ensitrelvir is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Suzetrigine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Decrease tacrolimus dose and adjust dose based on tacrolimus serum concentrations if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase tacrolimus serum concentrations and increase the risk of toxicity. Tacrolimus is a CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and ensitrelvir for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of ensitrelvir for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A, such as ensitrelvir, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Tamsulosin: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ensitrelvir is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A, such as ensitrelvir, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tazemetostat with ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased tazemetostat exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease current tazemetostat daily dosage by 50% (e.g., decrease 800 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO twice daily; 600 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO for first dose and 200 mg PO for second dose; 400 mg PO twice daily to 200 mg PO twice daily). Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tazemetostat overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Telisotuzumab vedotin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in telisotuzumab vedotin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase unconjugated MMAE exposure (cytotoxic component of telisotuzumab vedotin). MMAE is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the exposure of MMAE by 1.4-fold.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Temsirolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus and ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, resume the original temsirolimus dose after a washout period of approximately 1 week. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of sirolimus, the primary and active metabolite of temsirolimus, by 3.1-fold.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) If ensitrelvir and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of tezacaftor; ivacaftor when coadministered with ensitrelvir; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, give one tezacaftor/ivacaftor combination tablet twice a week, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tezacaftor and ivacaftor exposure 4- and 15.6-fold, respectively.
Thiotepa: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thiotepa and ensitrelvir if possible; reduced metabolism to the active thiotepa metabolite may result in decreased thiotepa efficacy. Consider an alternative agent with no or minimal potential to inhibit CYP3A. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients for signs of reduced thiotepa efficacy. In vitro, thiotepa is metabolized via CYP3A to the active metabolite, TEPA; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ticagrelor with ensitrelvir due to increased plasma concentrations of ticagrelor resulting in an increased risk of dyspnea, bleeding, and other treatment-related adverse reactions. Ticagrelor is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ticagrelor exposure by 7.32-fold.
Tinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tinidazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of tinidazole. Tinidazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tipranavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentrations of tipranavir. Tipranavir is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Tisotumab Vedotin: (Moderate) Closely monitor for tisotumab vedotin-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary due to increased monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. MMAE, the active component of tisotumab vedotin, is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clinical drug interaction studies have not been conducted for tisotumab vedotin. However, coadministration of another antibody-drug conjugate that contains MMAE with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased unconjugated MMAE exposure by 34%.
Tofacitinib: (Major) A tofacitinib dosage reduction is required if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. For patients on immediate-release formulations of tofacitinib: reduce all doses from twice daily to once daily. For patients on extended-release formulations of tofacitinib: reduce 22 mg once daily to 11 mg once daily; reduce 11 mg once daily to immediate-release 5 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase tofacitinib exposure and the risk for tofacitinib-related adverse effects. Tofacitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tofacitinib exposure by 2-fold.
Tolterodine: (Major) Reduce the dose of immediate-release tolterodine to 1 mg twice daily and extended-release tolterodine to 2 mg once daily if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase tolterodine exposure. In CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the CYP3A pathway becomes important in tolterodine elimination; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Because it is difficult to assess which patients will be poor CYP2D6 metabolizers, reduced doses of tolterodine are advised when administered with strong CYP3A inhibitors. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolterodine AUC by 2.5-fold in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.
Tolvaptan: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and ensitrelvir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ensitrelvir with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; ensitrelvir may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ensitrelvir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECG for QT prolongation and monitor serum electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Trabectedin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of trabectedin with ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased trabectedin exposure. If short-term ensitrelvir (less than 14 days) cannot be avoided, begin administration 1 week after the trabectedin infusion and discontinue it the day prior to the next trabectedin infusion. Trabectedin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the systemic exposure of a single dose of trabectedin (0.58 mg/m2 IV) by 66% compared to a single dose of trabectedin (1.3 mg/m2) given alone.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ensitrelvir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ensitrelvir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of verapamil with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of verapamil. Verapamil is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
traZODone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of trazodone with ensitrelvir due to the potential for increased trazodone exposure and associated adverse effects including QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, consider a reduced dose of trazodone based on tolerability. Trazodone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of trazodone alone.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin with ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased tretinoin exposure which may increase the risk for tretinoin-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor more frequently for adverse effects. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tretinoin exposure by 72%.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in triamcinolone-related adverse effects, such as fluid retention, electrolyte disturbances, and adrenal suppression, if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triamcinolone exposure. Triamcinolone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Other strong CYP3A inhibitors have decreased corticosteroid metabolism by up to 60%.
Triazolam: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ensitrelvir. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Ubrogepant: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and ensitrelvir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase ubrogepant overall exposure.
Ulipristal: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and ensitrelvir may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol.
Upadacitinib: (Major) During concomitant use of upadacitinib and ensitrelvir reduce the upadacitinib dosage to 15 mg once daily. During induction for ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease reduce the upadacitinib dosage to 30 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase upadacitinib exposure and risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased upadacitinib overall exposure 1.75-fold.
Valbenazine: (Major) Limit the maximum daily dose of valbenazine to 40 mg if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase valbenazine exposure and the risk for valbenazine-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation. Valbenazine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased exposure to both valbenazine and its active metabolite by approximately 2-fold.
Vamorolone: (Major) Decrease the vamorolone dose to 4 mg/kg once daily (max: 200 mg) and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase vamorolone exposure and the risk for vamorolone-related adverse effects. Vamorolone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vamorolone overall exposure by 44%.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of ensitrelvir; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg once per week. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg once per week. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor overall exposure by 6.4-, 4.5-, and 11.1-fold, respectively. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of tezacaftor; ivacaftor when coadministered with ensitrelvir; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, give one tezacaftor/ivacaftor combination tablet twice a week, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tezacaftor and ivacaftor exposure 4- and 15.6-fold, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of ensitrelvir; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg once per week. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg once per week. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor overall exposure by 6.4-, 4.5-, and 11.1-fold, respectively.
Vardenafil: (Major) Do not use vardenafil orally disintegrating tablets with ensitrelvir due to increased vardenafil exposure; do not exceed a single dose of 2.5 mg per 24-hour period of vardenafil oral tablets. Vardenafil is primarily metabolized by CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased the AUC of vardenafil by 10- to 16-fold.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of vemurafenib and ensitrelvir; vemurafenib exposure may be increased resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, including QT prolongation. If use with ensitrelvir cannot be avoided, consider a vemurafenib dose reduction; monitor patients closely for the development of adverse events and dose reduce or discontinue therapy based on manufacturer guidance. Vemurafenib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of vemurafenib by 40%.
Venetoclax: (Major) Coadministration of ensitrelvir with venetoclax is contraindicated during the initiation and ramp-up phase in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL); consider an alternative medication or adjust the venetoclax dose with close monitoring for toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) in patients receiving a steady daily dose of venetoclax if concurrent use is necessary. In patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), reduce the venetoclax dose and monitor for toxicity during concurrent use. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of ensitrelvir. Specific venetoclax dosage adjustments are as follows: CLL/SLL patients at steady daily dose: 100 mg/day. AML patients: 10 mg on day 1, 20 mg on day 2, 50 mg on day 3, then 100 mg/day starting on day 4. Venetoclax is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of strong CYP3A inhibitors increased the venetoclax AUC by 90% to 690%, while coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78%.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Consider a venlafaxine dose reduction and monitor for an increase in venlafaxine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase venlafaxine exposure. Venlafaxine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of verapamil with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of verapamil. Verapamil is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Vilazodone: (Major) Do not exceed a vilazodone dose of 20 mg once daily if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary; the original dose of vilazodone can be resumed if ensitrelvir is discontinued. Vilazodone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vilazodone exposure by 50%.
vinBLAStine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinblastine-related adverse reactions, including myelosuppression, constipation, and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Vinblastine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of voclosporin and ensitrelvir is contraindicated; concomitant use may increase the exposure of voclosporin and the risk of voclosporin-related adverse effects such as nephrotoxicity, hypertension, and QT prolongation. Voclosporin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased voclosporin exposure by approximately 19-fold.
Vorapaxar: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with ensitrelvir due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for increased voriconazole-related adverse effects if coadministered with ensitrelvir as concurrent use may increase voriconazole exposure. Voriconazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased voriconazole exposure by 79%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with ensitrelvir is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in zaleplon-related adverse reactions, including excessive sedation and confusion, if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Routine dosage adjustments of zaleplon are not required. Zaleplon is partially metabolized by CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of zaleplon by 20%.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Decrease the zanubrutinib dose to 80 mg PO once daily if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration may result in increased zanubrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Interrupt zanubrutinib therapy as recommended for adverse reactions. After discontinuation of ensitrelvir, resume the previous dose of zanubrutinib. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The AUC of zanubrutinib was increased by 278% when coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Ziftomenib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ziprasidone-related adverse effects, including QT prolongation, CNS effects, and extrapyramidal symptoms, if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Coadministration use may increase ziprasidone exposure. Ziprasidone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ziprasidone overall exposure by approximately 1.35- to 1.4-fold.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Consider decreasing the dose of zolpidem if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase zolpidem exposure. Zolpidem is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased the AUC of zolpidem by 34% to 70%.
Zuranolone: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Asymptomatic hemoglobin declines of more than 2 g/dL from baseline occurred in 3% of individuals receiving ensitrelvir.
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, angioedema, urticaria
    General Information
    Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, and angioedema, have been reported in individuals receiving ensitrelvir. Immediately discontinue ensitrelvir and initiate appropriate treatment if signs or symptoms of a clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction occur. Urticaria has also been reported during postmarketing surveillance.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache was reported in 3% of individuals receiving ensitrelvir.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    diarrhea
    General Information
    Diarrhea was reported in 2% of individuals receiving ensitrelvir.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough
    General Information
    Cough was reported in 1% of individuals receiving ensitrelvir.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Ensitrelvir is an antiviral agent that inhibits the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) main protease and is indicated for post-exposure prophylaxis of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) following contact with an individual who has COVID-19. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multinational trial in asymptomatic adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older who were household contacts of an individual with COVID-19, ensitrelvir reduced the risk of confirmed symptomatic COVID-19 through day 10 by 67% compared with placebo (relative risk ratio, 0.33; 95% CI, 0.22 to 0.49; p less than 0.0001). Clinically significant drug interactions may occur with medications primarily metabolized by CYP3A, transported by P-gp or BCRP, or with CYP3A inducers. Ensitrelvir was FDA-approved in May 2026.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ensitrelvir prevents viral replication by inhibiting the SARS-CoV-2 main protease (Mpro), also known as 3C-like protease (3CLpro) or nonstructural protein 5 (nsp5), thereby preventing processing of the viral polyproteins pp1a and pp1ab.
 
Antiviral Activity
Cell culture antiviral activity
Ensitrelvir demonstrated in vitro antiviral activity against multiple SARS-CoV-2 variants. In primary human nasal and bronchial epithelial cell cultures, EC50 values ranged from 11 to 115 nanomolar against tested variants.
Clinical antiviral activity
In a clinical trial, ensitrelvir was associated with greater reductions in nasopharyngeal SARS-CoV-2 RNA shedding through day 10 compared with placebo among participants who developed SARS-CoV-2 infection.
 
Antiviral Resistance
SARS-CoV-2 main protease substitutions associated with reduced susceptibility to ensitrelvir have been identified in cell culture and clinical trials. Treatment-emergent resistance-associated substitutions were detected in a small proportion of ensitrelvir-treated subjects, and their effect on clinical outcomes is unknown.
 
Cross-resistance
Ensitrelvir and nirmatrelvir are both SARS-CoV-2 main protease inhibitors and exhibit partial cross-resistance. Cross-resistance is not expected between ensitrelvir and remdesivir or other SARS-CoV-2 antivirals with different mechanisms of action.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    At the recommended regimen (375 mg on day 1, followed by 125 mg once daily on days 2 to 5), ensitrelvir reaches a median Tmax of approximately 2 to 2.5 hours. Mean day 5 Cmax and AUC were 18.2 mcg/mL, and 380.8 mcg x hour/mL, respectively. Exposure on day 1 was similar to that on day 5, consistent with the loading-dose design. Cmax and AUC increase in an almost dose-proportional manner following single oral doses ranging from 20 mg to 2,000 mg. No clinically significant differences in ensitrelvir pharmacokinetics were observed following administration with a high-fat, high-calorie meal.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in ensitrelvir pharmacokinetics were observed in individuals with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A or B) compared with individuals with normal hepatic function. The pharmacokinetics of ensitrelvir have not been studied in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in ensitrelvir pharmacokinetics were observed in individuals with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 89 mL/minute) compared with individuals with normal renal function. The pharmacokinetics of ensitrelvir have not been studied in individuals with kidney failure receiving dialysis.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in ensitrelvir pharmacokinetics were observed in pediatric patients 12 years and older. The pharmacokinetics of ensitrelvir have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 12 years
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in ensitrelvir pharmacokinetics were observed in geriatric adults 65 to 91 years.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in ensitrelvir pharmacokinetics were observed based on sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in ensitrelvir pharmacokinetics were observed based on race or ethnicity.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in ensitrelvir pharmacokinetics were observed based on body weight (up to 190 kg).
  Text
  Ensitrelvir is administered orally. Serum protein binding is approximately 98% to 99%, and the blood-to-plasma ratio is 0.54. The apparent oral central volume of distribution is 16.7 L. Ensitrelvir is primarily metabolized by CYP3A; unchanged ensitrelvir accounts for 90% or more of the drug-related material detected in plasma. Ensitrelvir is primarily eliminated via the biliary route. Following administration, 64.8% of the dose is recovered in feces (50.7% unchanged) and 25.8% in urine (19% unchanged). The apparent oral clearance is 0.316 L/hour, and the terminal half-life following a single oral dose is 42.2 to 48.1 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, P-gp, BCRP
Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate, a strong time-dependent CYP3A inhibitor, and a substrate and inhibitor of P-gp and BCRP. In vitro, ensitrelvir inhibits P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, OCT2, OAT1, OAT3, and MATE1; however, clinically significant interactions are not expected with OCT2, OAT1, OAT3, or MATE1 substrates. Ensitrelvir also inhibits CYP2C8 in vitro, although clinically significant CYP2C8-mediated interactions are not expected.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take with or without food.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    375 mg/day PO (loading dose); 125 mg/day PO (maintenance dose).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    375 mg/day PO (loading dose); 125 mg/day PO (maintenance dose).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    375 mg/day PO (loading dose); 125 mg/day PO (maintenance dose).
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: 375 mg/day PO (loading dose); 125 mg/day PO (maintenance dose).
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A or B): No dosage adjustment is needed.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C): Safety and efficacy have not been established.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 15 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
eGFR less than 15 mL/minute receiving dialysis: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
