=== Acetic Acid — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 1176)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acetic acid is a chemical that provides antibacterial or antifungal action.

Routes: otic, topical; Common adult doses: No specific maximum dosage information is available.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): hematuria, metabolic acidosis, urethral pain

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Absorption from open or irritated lesions of the bladder mucosa may result in systemic acidosis. This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

ACETIC ACID

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Acetasol, Borofair, VoSoL

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of otitis externa

Otic dosage
Adults


4 to 6 drops in the affected ear every 2 to 3 hours for 7 days.


Children and Adolescents 3 to 17 years


4 to 6 drops in the affected ear every 2 to 3 hours for 7 days.


For urologic irrigation to prevent growth and proliferation of susceptible urinary pathogens (especially ammonia-forming bacteria) in patients with prolonged placement of an indwelling urethral catheter

Intravesical dosage (0.25% acetic acid bladder irrigant)
Adults


Administer by gravity drip via an administration set connected to an indwelling urethral catheter designed for continuous or intermittent two-way flow. For continuous or intermittent irrigation, administer the 0.25% acetic acid bladder irrigation to correspond roughly to the rate of urine flow and adjust to maintain a urinary effluent pH of 4.5 to 5.0. Increasing flow rate reduces pH value, and vice-versa. With continuous or intermittent irrigation, each patient will require a volume of approximately 500 to 1500 mL per 24 hours.


Adolescents


The manufacturer does not supply specific information on dosing in adolescents. See adult dosage.


For topical adjunctive wound management† of selected superficial wounds to reduce the growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa

Topical irrigation soak dosage
Adults


Application of acetic acid irrigation soaks, in strengths up to 5%, may promote healing and removal of P. aeruginosa bacteria when used topically to selected wounds. Use dates back to 1916. One prospective study involved the use of 5% acetic acid soaks to 9 patients and compared them to alternately treated controls; two wounds were cleared of Pseudomonas species within 2 days and a further four within a week. Only one patient remained contaminated after 3 weeks. Following eradication of the organism, healing occurred rapidly in the responding patients. Solutions of acetic acid may cause discomfort, and their utility and efficacy in contemporary wound management is in question, given other therapeutic options. Frequent repeated application is needed to confer benefit, owing to the short duration of local action.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

bladder lesion


Use of bladder irrigation solution in patients with a bladder lesion may be harmful. Absorption from open or irritated lesions of the bladder mucosa may result in systemic acidosis.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

The bladder irrigation solution is contraindicated during transurethral surgery. Acetic acid otic use is contraindicated in patients with tympanic membrane perforation. Perforated tympanic membrane is considered a contraindication to the use of any medication in the external ear canal.

pregnancy


The safety of acetic acid product use during pregnancy has not been established. It is not known if the irrigation solution can cause fetal harm when administered during human pregnancy. In addition, animal reproduction studies have not been performed. Minimal systemic absorption is expected from topical or otic products.


breast-feeding


Use acetic acid with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known whether acetic acid is excreted in human milk. Clinically significant breast milk concentrations are not expected with the use of topical or otic use due to low systemic absorption.


Pregnancy And Lactation


The safety of acetic acid product use during pregnancy has not been established. It is not known if the irrigation solution can cause fetal harm when administered during human pregnancy. In addition, animal reproduction studies have not been performed. Minimal systemic absorption is expected from topical or otic products.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Acetic Acid, Glacial products.

Adverse Reaction
skin irritation, superinfection


Adverse effects associated with otic acetic acid include transient skin irritation (stinging or burning) upon first instillation into an acutely inflamed ear. Local skin irritation can occur with both bladder irrigation and topical soaks. Increases in the levels of non-susceptible bacteria, can occur locally in the treated area with prolonged use of all acetic acid products; superinfection directly attributable to acetic acid use is thought to be rare or uncommon.


hematuria, metabolic acidosis, urethral pain


Urethral pain and hematuria have been reported rarely in patients receiving urinary bladder irrigation with 0.25% acetic acid solution. Rarely, metabolic acidosis has also been reported, but is not expected routinely due to low systemic absorption of the drug in topical or intravesical use. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue administration of the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination, if deemed necessary.


Description

Acetic acid is a chemical that provides antibacterial or antifungal action. For medical use, pure (glacial) acetic acid is diluted into weak solutions using sterile water; a typical dilution strength for irrigation is 0.25%. An otic acetic acid solution is indicated for the treatment of superficial bacterial infections of the external auditory canal.  Diluted acetic acid skin irrigations are often prepared from glacial acetic acid via dilution in sterile water for irrigation, and are used for various purposes topically to the skin; other uses include catheter instillation into the bladder. The otic product was approved by the FDA in 1960.
 
NOTE: Danger! Corrosive and irritant. Glacial Acetic Acid is acetic acid of high purity (99.75%) and it should always be diluted to much weaker percentages prior to human use. High concentrations of acetic acid cause severe eye, digestive tract, respiratory tract, and skin burns upon exposure, and may cause other harms.

Mechanism Of Action

The exact mechanism by which acetic acid exerts its antibacterial and antifungal actions is unknown. Acetic acid is effective against microorganisms in patients with acute diffuse external otitis. In vitro tests, minimum lethal-time was less than 0.25 minutes when bacteria and fungi isolated from patients with otitis externa were exposed to 2% acetic acid.
 
Irrigation of the urinary bladder with acetic acid solution in a concentration of 0.25% has been shown to exert an antimicrobial action against a variety of microorganisms (especially ammonia-forming bacteria) that frequently gain access to the urinary bladder in patients who require prolonged indwelling urethral catheterization. Its antimicrobial action is dependent on administration via the indwelling catheter at a sufficient rate (continuous or intermittent) to maintain an effluent pH of 5.0 or lower. Maintenance of low pH of bladder urine also helps reduce formation of calcium encrustations in the indwelling catheter.
 
Frequent application of acetic acid, in solutions of up to 5% strength, may promote healing and removal of bacteria when used topically to selected wounds. The use of acetic acid irrigations topically dates back to 1916 when it was reported that a 1% solution applied to superficial war wounds led to elimination of an organism called Bacillus pyocyaneas (e.g., Pseudomonas aeroginosa). Solutions of acetic acid may cause significant discomfort, may promote other organism overgrowth (e.g., S. auerus) , and their utility and efficacy in contemporary wound management is in question, given other therapeutic options. Frequent repeat application of soaks are needed to confer benefits due to a short duration of local action.

Pharmacokinetics

Acetic acid is administered topically as an otic solution and bladder irrigant. The metabolism and excretion of acetic acid is unknown.] Pharmacodynamically, repeat dosing is needed to confer effectiveness, due to short local duration of action of 1 hour or less.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Topical Route

Although specific information of the absorption and distribution is unknown, acetic acid acts locally and significant systemic absorption from topical wound application is unlikely.

Other Route(s)

Otic Route:
Although specific information of the absorption and distribution is unknown, acetic acid acts locally and systemic absorption is unlikely. In otic administration, minimum lethal-time was less than 0.25 minutes when bacteria and fungi isolated from patients with otitis externa were exposed to 2% acetic acid. Quantitative absorption of acetic acid 2% from external auditory canal is not known.
 
Intravesical Route:
Although specific information of the absorption and distribution is unknown, acetic acid acts locally and systemic absorption from bladder instillation is unlikely.

Pediatrics

There are no particular expected differences between pediatric patients and young adults with respect to pharmacokinetics of otic instillation.

Geriatric

Clinical studies have not been performed to determine whether patients over 65 years of age respond differently from younger subjects. Systemic absorption of the products is unlikely. There are no particular expected pharmacokinetic differences between geriatric patients and younger adults with topical, otic, or intravesical use.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Topical Administration
Other Topical Formulations

NOTE: Acetic acid is not approved by the FDA for topical wound irrigation.
Topical acetic acid irrigations, in various strengths from 1% up to 5%, are used as soaks for superficial wound care, with soaks applied frequently to maintain effectiveness.
Wash hands before and application; use of gloves is recommended to avoid wound contamination.
Do not store; prepared or opened acetic acid topical solutions should generally be used within 24 hours.
This drug product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.


Extemporaneous Compounding-Topical

NOTE: The extemporaneous preparation of topical acetic acid irrigations for wound care is not approved by the FDA.

Otic Administration


The patient should lie on the side with the affected ear uppermost.
Instill 4 to 6 drops into the external auditory canal and maintain this position for 5 minutes.
Repeat the procedure every 2 to 3 hours.


Other Administration Route(s)

Intravesical Administration:
0.25% Acetic Acid Irrigation USP may be administered by gravity drip via an administration set connected to an indwelling urethral
catheter designed for continuous or intermittent two-way flow.
For continuous or intermittent irrigation, the rate of administration will correspond roughly to the rate of urine flow and should be continuous or intermittent two-way flow.
Adjust to maintain a urinary effluent pH of 4.5 to 5.0. Nitrazine or other pH paper may be used to monitor pH; increasing flow rate reduces pH value and vice versa.
With continuous or intermittent irrigation, each patient will require a volume of approximately 500 to 1500 mL per 24 hours.
Some additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique. Mix thoroughly.
 
Directions for use of PIC Containers:
Not for injection.
Aseptic technique is required.
Caution – Before use, perform the following checks:
(a) Read the label. Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date.
(b) Invert container and inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness, haze, or particulate matter; check the container for leakage or damage. Any container which is suspect should not be used.
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact.
Outer Closure Removal – Grasp the container with one hand and turn the breakaway ring counterclockwise with the other hand until slight resistance is felt. Then, twisting the container in the opposite direction, turn the breakaway ring sharply until the entire outer cap is loose and can be lifted off.
Connect the administration set through the sterile set port according to set instructions or remove screw cap and pour.
Do not warm above 150°F to assure minimal bottle distortion. Keep bottles upright.
Single dose container. Do not store once opened. Discard unused portion.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

No specific maximum dosage information is available.

Geriatric

No specific maximum dosage information is available.

Adolescents

No specific maximum dosage information is available.

Children

Children >= 3 years: No specific maximum dosage information is available for the otic solution; safety and efficacy of bladder irrigation have not been established.
Children < 3 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Acetic Acid 2% Otic drops, solution

Acetic Acid, Glacial 0.25% Bladder irrigation

Acetic Acid, Glacial 2% Otic drops, solution

Acetic Acid, Glacial 3% Bulk liquid

Acetic Acid, Glacial 5% Bulk liquid

Acetic Acid, Glacial Bulk liquid

Fem PH Vaginal Gel

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier