=== Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex/Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2427)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Sodium ferric gluconate complex is an injectable iron replacement product indicated for the treatment of iron-deficiency anemia in adults and pediatric patients age 6 years and older with chronic kidney disease receiving hemodialysis who are receiving supplemental epoetin therapy.

Routes: intravenous; Common adult doses: Sodium ferric gluconate complex:

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agitation, asthenia, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, malaise, paresthesias, seizures, weakness, cough, dyspnea, pharyngitis, rhinitis, angina, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, fetal bradycardia, flank pain, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, peripheral vasodilation, pulmonary edema, sinus tachycardia, syncope, dysgeusia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Sodium ferric gluconate complex should only be used in patients with a clear and confirmed need for parenteral iron therapy. Sodium ferric gluconate complex is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to the drug or any of its components.

Brand Names
  - Ferrlecit
  - Nulecit
  - Triferic

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of iron-deficiency anemia in individuals with hemodialysis-dependent chronic kidney disease
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage (ferric pyrophosphate citrate)
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          6.75 mg IV per dialysis session. Administer for as long as individuals are receiving maintenance hemodialysis therapy for chronic kidney disease.
      Heading
      for the treatment of iron-deficiency anemia in individuals with hemodialysis-dependent chronic kidney disease who are receiving epoetin alfa therapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage (sodium ferric gluconate complex)
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          125 mg IV per dialysis session. For repletion treatment, most individuals require a cumulative dose of 1,000 mg of elemental iron administered over 8 dialysis sessions. May repeat treatment if iron deficiency recurs.
          Heading
          Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years
          Dosage Description
          1.5 mg/kg/dose (Max: 125 mg/dose) IV per dialysis session. Usual Adult cumulative dose: 1,000 mg. May repeat treatment if iron deficiency recurs.
      Heading
      for the treatment of iron-deficiency anemia in individuals who have an intolerance or unsatisfactory response to oral iron†
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage (sodium ferric gluconate complex)
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          125 mg IV every other day for 8 doses for a cumulative dose of 1,000 mg. A longer interval between doses can be used; do not administer more frequently than every other day.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of iron-deficiency anemia

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Sodium ferric gluconate complex should only be used in patients with a clear and confirmed need for parenteral iron therapy. Sodium ferric gluconate complex is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to the drug or any of its components. Potentially fatal hypersensitivity reactions characterized by cardiovascular collapse, cardiac arrest, bronchospasm, oral or pharyngeal edema, dyspnea, angioedema, urticaria, or pruritus which could result in death have been reported rarely in patients receiving therapy with iron-carbohydrate complexes. Parenteral sodium ferric gluconate complex (Ferrlecit) and iron sucrose (Venofer) complexes are less likely to cause hypersensitivity reactions than iron dextran, and may be used as alternative therapy in patients with a prior hypersensitivity reaction to iron dextran. In a post-marketing, single-dose, safety study of 1097 patients, 1 patient experienced a life-threatening hypersensitivity reaction to sodium ferric gluconate complex. Furthermore, the incidence of drug intolerance or suspected allergic reaction to sodium ferric gluconate complex occurred in 2.8% of patients with a history of prior iron dextran hypersensitivity, including the patient with the life threatening reaction, vs. 0.8% of patients without such a history. In addition, 28% of patients in this study were also receiving an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. The incidence of drug intolerance or suspected hypersensitivity reaction in patients taking an ACE inhibitor was 1.6% vs. 0.7% in those patients not taking an ACE inhibitor. A test dose was initially recommended prior to administration of Ferrlecit; however, the FDA has removed this requirement for a test dose upon reviewing post-marketing safety data for Ferrlecit. Serious anaphylactoid reactions require appropriate resuscitative measures.
 
Cardiovascular adverse effects may also occur with sodium ferric gluconate complex, and do not necessarily indicate hypersensitivity. Flushing and hypotension are more common following rapid intravenous administration (see dosage for recommended administration rates for IV injection and IV infusion). Sodium ferric gluconate complex is administered commonly to patients receiving dialysis; many patients experience transient hypotension during hemodialysis. Patients with preexisting cardiac disease may have exacerbation of cardiovascular symptoms if adverse effects occur following sodium ferric gluconate complex administration. Data in patients aged >= 65 years old are limited. While the elderly do not appear to respond differently to this drug than normal adults, the manufacturer has recommended cautious initial dosing in the elderly population.
 
The only approved route of administration for sodium ferric gluconate complex is by intravenous infusion. There is no information regarding intramuscular administration.
 
Sodium ferric gluconate complex is contraindicated for use in patients who have anemia not associated with iron-deficiency. Unnecessary administration of iron may lead to iron overload and iron toxicity. Since the anemia may be a result of a systemic disturbance, such as recurrent blood loss, the underlying cause(s) should be corrected, if possible. Parenteral administration of iron will not alleviate hemolytic anemia; sodium ferric gluconate complex should only be administered to patients with hemolysis if an iron-deficiency is also present. Parenteral iron products should be used cautiously in patients receiving blood transfusions because iron overload may occur. Prolonged use of sodium ferric gluconate complex should be restricted to avoid iron overload. Oral iron preparations should be discontinued prior to the use of parenteral iron.
 
Unnecessary administration of sodium ferric gluconate complex to patients with hemoglobinopathies may result in excessive storage of iron. Those suffering from hereditary/genetic hemochromatosis or hemochromatosis due to secondary iron overload (e.g., as in iron-loading anemias such as thalassemia or sideroblastic anemia) need to avoid sodium ferric gluconate complex and other iron supplements. Hemochromatosis is a disease that causes the body to lose its ability to regulate the amount of iron that is absorbed, leading to excess iron absorption and tissue storage. Massive deposition of iron (hemosiderosis) in parenchymal tissues in these conditions may damage the liver, heart, pancreas and other tissues. Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) is sometimes associated with parenchymal iron deposits; patients with PCT should generally avoid iron therapies. Excess iron supplementation in PCT patients can contribute to hepatic uroporphinogen decarboxylase deficiency but the mechanism is not clear.
 
Some patients with chronic hepatic disease may also have hemochromatosis or moderate iron overload in hepatic tissues. The liver is one of the main storage sites for iron, and advanced chronic liver disease may result in excess storage iron in the liver. Use sodium ferric gluconate complex with caution in patients with hepatic disease.
 
No adequate or well-controlled human studies have evaluated the use of sodium ferric gluconate complex in pregnancy; the compound is listed in FDA pregnancy risk category B. Sodium ferric gluconate complex was not teratogenic at doses of elemental iron up to 100 mg/kg/day (300 mg/m2/day) in mice and 20 mg/kg/day (120 mg/m2/day) in rats; these iron doses were 1.3 and 3.24 times the recommended human dose for a person of 50 kg body weight and BSA of 1.46 m2. No data are available regarding maternal toxicity. Studies to assess the effects of sodium ferric gluconate complex on fertility were not conducted. The use of sodium ferric gluconate complex in pregnant patients should only be considered if the benefits of therapy clearly outweigh the potential risks to the fetus.
 
Sodium ferric gluconate complex should be administered with caution to women during lactation. While iron is excreted into breast-milk, the iron content of breast milk is not readily affected by the iron content of the maternal diet or the maternal serum iron level. Therefore, the therapeutic prescription use of iron is usually compatible with breast feeding if the lactating mother needs treatment for iron deficiency. However, because trace amounts of unmetabolized sodium ferric gluconate complex could potentially be excreted in breast milk, caution should be exercised during breast-feeding.
 
Safety and effectiveness of the use of sodium ferric gluconate complex has not been established in infants or children < 6 years of age. Administration of iron to premature infants can increase the risk of developing hemolytic anemia because these infants may have a low serum vitamin E concentration. In general, iron supplementation should not begin in premature infants until adequate vitamin E is supplied in the diet; human breast milk and modern infant formulas usually supply adequate vitamin E. Sodium ferric gluconate complex should be avoided in patients with benzyl alcohol hypersensitivity and should not be used in neonates because of the presence of benzyl alcohol as a preservative in the product. In neonates, benzyl alcohol may cause a "gasping syndrome". Neonates have a decreased capacity to conjugate p-amino benzoate and benzoic acid; benzoic acid accumulation in neonates may cause significant morbidity. Sodium ferric gluconate complex has been shown to be safe and effective in children aged 6—15 years. Two dosages of sodium ferric gluconate complex (1.5 mg/kg or 3.0 mg/kg) were administered to 66 iron-deficient pediatric hemodialysis patients (aged 6—15 years) for 8 sequential dialysis sessions. Two weeks after the last dose of sodium ferric gluconate complex was administered, both groups of patients demonstrated significant increases in hemoglobin (0.8 mg/dL for the 1.5 mg/kg group and 0.9 mg/dl for the 3.0 mg/kg group, P<0.03 compared to baseline for both groups). In addition, both groups demonstrated significant increases in hematocrit, transferrin saturation, and serum ferritin concentrations. There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    iron overload disorder
    General Information
    Do not administer sodium ferric gluconate complex to patients with evidence of iron overload disorder (e.g., hemochromatosis). Excessive therapy with parenteral iron may lead to excess storage of iron and iatrogenic hemosiderosis. Monitor hematologic and iron parameters during therapy.
    Headline
    infants, neonates, premature neonates
    General Information
    Sodium ferric gluconate complex is not approved for use in neonates and infants. Serious and fatal adverse reactions, including gasping syndrome, can occur in low-birth-weight and premature neonates treated with benzyl alcohol-preserved drugs, including sodium ferric gluconate complex. The gasping syndrome is characterized by central nervous system depression, metabolic acidosis, and gasping respirations. The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which serious adverse reactions may occur is not known.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from postmarketing reports on the use of sodium ferric gluconate complex during human pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. Sodium ferric gluconate complex injection contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative. Because benzyl alcohol is rapidly metabolized by the pregnant person, benzyl alcohol exposure in the fetus is unlikely. However, serious adverse reactions have occurred in premature neonates and low birth weight infants after direct intravenous administration of drugs containing benzyl alcohol, including fatal reactions and "gasping syndrome". The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which serious adverse reactions may occur is unknown. Consider alternative iron replacement therapies without benzyl alcohol during pregnancy. Untreated iron deficiency in pregnancy is associated with adverse outcomes, including postpartum anemia, increased risk for preterm delivery, and low birth weight. However, serious adverse reactions, including circulatory failure, hypotension, in the context of an anaphylactic reaction, may occur in patients administered parenteral iron products. This may have serious consequences in pregnancy, such as fetal bradycardia, especially during the second and third trimester. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk. In the absence of maternal toxicity, sodium ferric gluconate complex was not teratogenic in animal studies at clinically relevant exposures.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use sodium ferric gluconate complex with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of sodium ferric gluconate complex in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Sodium ferric gluconate complex injection contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative. Because benzyl alcohol is rapidly metabolized by the lactating person, benzyl alcohol exposure in the breastfed child is unlikely. However, serious adverse reactions have occurred in premature neonates and low birth weight infants after direct intravenous administration of drugs containing benzyl alcohol, including fatal reactions and "gasping syndrome". The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which serious adverse reactions may occur is unknown. Consider alternative iron replacement therapies without benzyl alcohol in patients who are breast-feeding.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from postmarketing reports on the use of sodium ferric gluconate complex during human pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. Sodium ferric gluconate complex injection contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative. Because benzyl alcohol is rapidly metabolized by the pregnant person, benzyl alcohol exposure in the fetus is unlikely. However, serious adverse reactions have occurred in premature neonates and low birth weight infants after direct intravenous administration of drugs containing benzyl alcohol, including fatal reactions and "gasping syndrome". The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which serious adverse reactions may occur is unknown. Consider alternative iron replacement therapies without benzyl alcohol during pregnancy. Untreated iron deficiency in pregnancy is associated with adverse outcomes, including postpartum anemia, increased risk for preterm delivery, and low birth weight. However, serious adverse reactions, including circulatory failure, hypotension, in the context of an anaphylactic reaction, may occur in patients administered parenteral iron products. This may have serious consequences in pregnancy, such as fetal bradycardia, especially during the second and third trimester. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk. In the absence of maternal toxicity, sodium ferric gluconate complex was not teratogenic in animal studies at clinically relevant exposures.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use sodium ferric gluconate complex with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of sodium ferric gluconate complex in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Sodium ferric gluconate complex injection contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative. Because benzyl alcohol is rapidly metabolized by the lactating person, benzyl alcohol exposure in the breastfed child is unlikely. However, serious adverse reactions have occurred in premature neonates and low birth weight infants after direct intravenous administration of drugs containing benzyl alcohol, including fatal reactions and "gasping syndrome". The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which serious adverse reactions may occur is unknown. Consider alternative iron replacement therapies without benzyl alcohol in patients who are breast-feeding.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Acetohydroxamic Acid: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and oral iron products. Injectable iron dosage forms are preferred if iron therapy is required in patients receiving acetohydroxamic acid. The oral absorption of both medications is reduced during concomitant use which may reduce efficacy.
Alendronate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. Antacids may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations. At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. Antacids may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations. At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. Antacids may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations. At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. Antacids may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations. At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. Antacids may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations. At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Antacids: (Moderate) Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. Antacids may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations. At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. Antacids may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations. At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Baloxavir Marboxil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of baloxavir with oral dietary supplements containing iron. Oral iron interferes with baloxavir absorption and may reduce baloxavir efficacy. In animal studies, polyvalent cations like iron reduced baloxavir overall exposure by 48% to 63%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Administer bictegravir with food at the same time as iron supplements. If bictegravir is taken on an empty stomach, it should be given at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after iron supplements. Routine administration of bictegravir under fasting conditions simultaneously with, or 2 hours after, iron supplements is not recommended. Iron is a polyvalent cation that can bind bictegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously without food results in reduced bioavailability of bictegravir. In drug interaction studies, simultaneous administration of bictegravir and ferrous fumarate under fasted conditions decreased the mean AUC of bictegravir by approximately 63%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Administer bictegravir with food at the same time as iron supplements. If bictegravir is taken on an empty stomach, it should be given at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after iron supplements. Routine administration of bictegravir under fasting conditions simultaneously with, or 2 hours after, iron supplements is not recommended. Iron is a polyvalent cation that can bind bictegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously without food results in reduced bioavailability of bictegravir. In drug interaction studies, simultaneous administration of bictegravir and ferrous fumarate under fasted conditions decreased the mean AUC of bictegravir by approximately 63%.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Cabotegravir: (Moderate) Administer oral iron at least two hours before or four hours after taking oral cabotegravir. Iron is a polyvalent cation that can bind cabotegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced oral bioavailability of cabotegravir.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Administer oral iron at least two hours before or four hours after taking oral cabotegravir. Iron is a polyvalent cation that can bind cabotegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced oral bioavailability of cabotegravir.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. (Minor) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of H2-blockers can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. H2-blockers have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Cefdinir: (Moderate) Administer cefdinir at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after iron supplements. Cefdinir absorption may be reduced. Coadministration of cefdinir with a therapeutic iron supplement containing 60 mg of elemental iron or vitamins supplemented with 10 mg of elemental iron reduced extent of absorption by 80% and 31%, respectively.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of cholestyramine and oral iron supplements may reduce the oral absorption of iron. To avoid any oral absorption interference, administration of other drugs is recommended 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine administration.
Cimetidine: (Minor) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of H2-blockers can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. H2-blockers have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Administer oral ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after oral products that contain iron. Ciprofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Delafloxacin: (Major) Administer oral delafloxacin at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after oral products that contain iron. Delafloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include multivitamins that contain iron.
Demeclocycline: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Dexlansoprazole: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Dimercaprol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dimercaprol and products containing iron is contraindicated. If iron products are needed in a patient who has taken dimercaprol, wait at least 24 hours after the last dose of dimercaprol before starting or resuming iron-containing products. Dimercaprol forms toxic-chelates with iron which increases the risk for nephrotoxicity and other adverse effects.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Doxycycline: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Eltrombopag: (Major) Eltrombopag chelates polyvalent cations (e.g., iron) in foods and mineral supplements. In a clinical study, systemic exposure to eltrombopag was decreased by 70% when it was administered with a polyvalent cation-containing antacid. Administer eltrombopag at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after any oral products containing polyvalent cations, such as iron salts, multivitamins that contain iron, or polysaccharide-iron complex.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Separate administration of elvitegravir and iron by at least 2 hours. Due to the formation of ionic complexes in the gastrointestinal tract, simultaneous administration results in lower elvitegravir plasma concentrations.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Separate administration of elvitegravir and iron by at least 2 hours. Due to the formation of ionic complexes in the gastrointestinal tract, simultaneous administration results in lower elvitegravir plasma concentrations.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Famotidine: (Minor) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of H2-blockers can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. H2-blockers have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Ferric carboxymaltose: (Major) Parenteral iron formulas are generally only indicated for use in patients with documented iron deficiency in whom oral administration is either impossible or unsatisfactory. In general, do not administer parenteral iron concomitantly with other iron preparations (e.g., other parenteral iron products or oral iron supplements). Parenteral iron preparations (e.g., iron dextran; iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide; sodium ferric gluconate complex; ferric carboxymaltose; ferumoxytol) may reduce the absorption of concomitantly administered oral iron preparations. Oral iron supplementation should be discontinued before parenteral administration of iron. Too much iron can be toxic, and iron is not easily eliminated from the body.
Ferric Derisomaltose: (Major) Parenteral iron formulas are generally only indicated for use in patients with documented iron deficiency in whom oral administration is either impossible or unsatisfactory. In general, do not administer parenteral iron concomitantly with other iron preparations (e.g., other parenteral iron products or oral iron supplements). Parenteral iron preparations (e.g., iron dextran; iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide; sodium ferric gluconate complex; ferric carboxymaltose; ferumoxytol) may reduce the absorption of concomitantly administered oral iron preparations. Oral iron supplementation should be discontinued before parenteral administration of iron. Too much iron can be toxic, and iron is not easily eliminated from the body.
Ferumoxytol: (Major) Parenteral iron formulas are generally only indicated for use in patients with documented iron deficiency in whom oral administration is either impossible or unsatisfactory. In general, do not administer parenteral iron concomitantly with other iron preparations (e.g., other parenteral iron products or oral iron supplements). Parenteral iron preparations (e.g., iron dextran; iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide; sodium ferric gluconate complex; ferric carboxymaltose; ferumoxytol) may reduce the absorption of concomitantly administered oral iron preparations. Oral iron supplementation should be discontinued before parenteral administration of iron. Too much iron can be toxic, and iron is not easily eliminated from the body.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Administer oral products that contain iron at least 3 hours before or 2 hours after gemifloxacin. Gemifloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include multivitamins that contain iron.
Green Tea: (Major) Green tea has been shown to inhibit the absorption of nonheme iron. When possible, do not consume green tea or green tea extract within 1 hour before or 2 hours after giving iron salts.
H2-blockers: (Minor) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of H2-blockers can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. H2-blockers have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Ibandronate: (Moderate) Separate administration of oral ibandronate and iron supplements by at least 1 hour. Iron will interfere with the absorption of oral ibandronate.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) It has been reported that high intakes of phosphates, such as are found in dietary supplements or food additives, can interfere with absorption of trace nutrients such as iron, copper, and zinc. The magnitude of the effect may be small, and the interactions require further study to judge clinical significance. The theorized mechanism is the formation of insoluble complexes within the gut. Until more data are available, it may be helpful to separate administration times of phosphates by as much as possible from the oral administration of iron (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex), copper salts, or zinc salts to limit any potential interactions.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Minor) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of H2-blockers can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. H2-blockers have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Iron - Injectable Only: (Major) Parenteral iron formulas are generally only indicated for use in patients with documented iron deficiency in whom oral administration is either impossible or unsatisfactory. In general, do not administer parenteral iron concomitantly with other iron preparations (e.g., other parenteral iron products or oral iron supplements). Parenteral iron preparations (e.g., iron dextran; iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide; sodium ferric gluconate complex; ferric carboxymaltose; ferumoxytol) may reduce the absorption of concomitantly administered oral iron preparations. Oral iron supplementation should be discontinued before parenteral administration of iron. Too much iron can be toxic, and iron is not easily eliminated from the body.
Iron Dextran: (Major) Parenteral iron formulas are generally only indicated for use in patients with documented iron deficiency in whom oral administration is either impossible or unsatisfactory. In general, do not administer parenteral iron concomitantly with other iron preparations (e.g., other parenteral iron products or oral iron supplements). Parenteral iron preparations (e.g., iron dextran; iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide; sodium ferric gluconate complex; ferric carboxymaltose; ferumoxytol) may reduce the absorption of concomitantly administered oral iron preparations. Oral iron supplementation should be discontinued before parenteral administration of iron. Too much iron can be toxic, and iron is not easily eliminated from the body.
Iron Sucrose, Sucroferric Oxyhydroxide: (Major) Parenteral iron formulas are generally only indicated for use in patients with documented iron deficiency in whom oral administration is either impossible or unsatisfactory. In general, do not administer parenteral iron concomitantly with other iron preparations (e.g., other parenteral iron products or oral iron supplements). Parenteral iron preparations (e.g., iron dextran; iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide; sodium ferric gluconate complex; ferric carboxymaltose; ferumoxytol) may reduce the absorption of concomitantly administered oral iron preparations. Oral iron supplementation should be discontinued before parenteral administration of iron. Too much iron can be toxic, and iron is not easily eliminated from the body.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Lanthanum Carbonate: (Major) Oral compounds known to interact with antacids, like iron salts, should not be taken within 2 hours of dosing with lanthanum carbonate. If these agents are used concomitantly, space the dosing intervals appropriately. Monitor serum concentrations and clinical condition.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Administer oral products that contain iron at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after orally administered levofloxacin. Levofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Chelation of divalent cations with levofloxacin is less than with other quinolones.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. Antacids may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations. At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. Antacids may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations. At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed.
Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Sulfate; Sodium Sulfate: (Major) Administer iron at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate. The absorption of iron may be reduced by chelation with magnesium sulfate.
Methyldopa: (Major) Coadministration of methyldopa with iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex is not recommended. If iron supplementation is necessary, administer a methyldopa dose at least 2 hours prior to the iron supplement. Iron salts have been reported to dramatically reduce the oral absorption of methyldopa. Several studies demonstrate decreased bioavailability of methyldopa when coadministered with ferrous sulfate or ferrous gluconate. This interaction may result in decreased antihypertensive effect of methyldopa.
Minocycline: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Administer oral moxifloxacin at least 4 hours before or 8 hours after oral products that contain iron. Moxifloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include multivitamins that contain iron.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Separate administration of mycophenolate and iron by at least 4 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of mycophenolate. Mycophenolate recovery was reduced by up to 16% under certain pH conditions in drug interaction studies.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Nizatidine: (Minor) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of H2-blockers can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. H2-blockers have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Administer oral products that contain iron at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after ofloxacin. Ofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Omadacycline: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. Antacids may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations. At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Pantoprazole: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
penicillAMINE: (Major) In general, oral mineral supplements should not be given since they may block the oral absorption of penicillamine. However, iron deficiency may develop, especially in children and menstruating or pregnant women, or as a result of the low copper diet recommended for Wilson's disease. If necessary, iron may be given in short courses, but since iron and penicillamine each inhibit oral absorption of the other, 2 hours should elapse between administration of penicillamine and iron doses.
Phosphorated Carbohydrate Solution: (Moderate) It has been reported that high intakes of phosphates, such as are found in dietary supplements or food additives, can interfere with absorption of trace nutrients such as iron, copper, and zinc. The magnitude of the effect may be small, and the interactions require further study to judge clinical significance. The theorized mechanism is the formation of insoluble complexes within the gut. Until more data are available, it may be helpful to separate administration times of phosphates by as much as possible from the oral administration of iron (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex), copper salts, or zinc salts to limit any potential interactions.
Phosphorus: (Moderate) It has been reported that high intakes of phosphates, such as are found in dietary supplements or food additives, can interfere with absorption of trace nutrients such as iron, copper, and zinc. The magnitude of the effect may be small, and the interactions require further study to judge clinical significance. The theorized mechanism is the formation of insoluble complexes within the gut. Until more data are available, it may be helpful to separate administration times of phosphates by as much as possible from the oral administration of iron (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex), copper salts, or zinc salts to limit any potential interactions.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes: (Major) Administer iron at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate. The absorption of iron may be reduced by chelation with magnesium sulfate.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Ascorbic Acid: (Major) Administer iron at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate. The absorption of iron may be reduced by chelation with magnesium sulfate.
Potassium Phosphate: (Moderate) It has been reported that high intakes of phosphates, such as are found in dietary supplements or food additives, can interfere with absorption of trace nutrients such as iron, copper, and zinc. The magnitude of the effect may be small, and the interactions require further study to judge clinical significance. The theorized mechanism is the formation of insoluble complexes within the gut. Until more data are available, it may be helpful to separate administration times of phosphates by as much as possible from the oral administration of iron (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex), copper salts, or zinc salts to limit any potential interactions.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) It has been reported that high intakes of phosphates, such as are found in dietary supplements or food additives, can interfere with absorption of trace nutrients such as iron, copper, and zinc. The magnitude of the effect may be small, and the interactions require further study to judge clinical significance. The theorized mechanism is the formation of insoluble complexes within the gut. Until more data are available, it may be helpful to separate administration times of phosphates by as much as possible from the oral administration of iron (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex), copper salts, or zinc salts to limit any potential interactions.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Risedronate: (Moderate) Separate administration of oral risedronate and iron supplements by at least 2 hours. Iron will interfere with the absorption of oral risedronate.
Sarecycline: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. Antacids may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations. At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Moderate) Iron salts may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, products containing iron should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Tetracycline: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Tetracyclines: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of iron supplements. Oral iron salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased oral absorption of the thyroid hormone. For example, ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex.
Trientine: (Major) In general, oral mineral supplements should not be given since they may block the oral absorption of trientine. However, iron deficiency may develop, especially in children and menstruating or pregnant women, or as a result of the low copper diet recommended for Wilson's disease. If necessary, iron may be given in short courses, but since iron and trientine each inhibit oral absorption of the other, 2 hours should elapse between administration of trientine and iron doses.
Vadadustat: (Moderate) Administer vadadustat at least 1 hour before oral products that contain iron, such as iron supplements or iron-containing phosphate binders. Taking vadadustat at the same time or after an oral iron product interferes with vadadustat oral absorption and has been observed to decrease overall exposure by approximately 50%, which may reduce its efficacy. Administration of vadadustat at least 1 hour before oral iron products minimizes the risk of this interaction.
Vonoprazan: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of oral iron salts if coadministered with vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of iron reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of oral iron salts if coadministered with vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of iron reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of oral iron salts if coadministered with vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of iron reducing its efficacy.
Zinc Salts: (Moderate) Orally administered zinc salts compete with iron supplements for absorption from the intestine. To minimize the interaction, separate oral iron and zinc doses by at least 2 hours. The oral receipt of 100 mg of iron as ferrous gluconate with 12 mg zinc in 11 patients with normal iron status and comparable total exchangeable zinc pools yielded a mean zinc absorption of 26.4% +/- 14.4% of the administered dose as compared with 44.5% +/- 22.5% of the dose given without concomitant iron. Concomitant use of iron 400 mg as ferrous gluconate yielded a mean zinc absorption of 22.9% +/- 6.4% of the zinc dose.
Zinc: (Moderate) Orally administered zinc salts compete with iron supplements for absorption from the intestine. To minimize the interaction, separate oral iron and zinc doses by at least 2 hours. The oral receipt of 100 mg of iron as ferrous gluconate with 12 mg zinc in 11 patients with normal iron status and comparable total exchangeable zinc pools yielded a mean zinc absorption of 26.4% +/- 14.4% of the administered dose as compared with 44.5% +/- 22.5% of the dose given without concomitant iron. Concomitant use of iron 400 mg as ferrous gluconate yielded a mean zinc absorption of 22.9% +/- 6.4% of the zinc dose.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Potentially fatal hypersensitivity reactions characterized by cardiovascular collapse, cardiac arrest, bronchospasm, oral or pharyngeal edema, dyspnea, angioedema, urticaria, or pruritus sometimes associated with back pain, chest pain (unspecified) and muscle cramps (spasm) that could result in death have been rarely reported in patients receiving therapy with iron carbohydrate complexes. In a single-dose, post-marketing safety study, 1 patient (0.09%) experienced a life-threatening hypersensitivity reaction characterized by dyspnea, diaphoresis, nausea, vomiting, severe lower back pain, and wheezing. An additional 8 patients experienced an adverse reaction that precluded further drug administration (6 allergic reactions and 1 each of low blood pressure and nausea). Serious anaphylactoid reactions require appropriate resuscitative measures. Although fatal reactions have not been observed with sodium ferric gluconate complex during clinical studies, insufficient numbers of patients may have been enrolled to observe this event. A test dose was initially recommended prior to administration of Ferrlecit(R); however, the FDA has removed this requirement for a test dose upon reviewing post-marketing safety data for Ferrlecit(R). Hypotension, associated with flushing, dizziness, malaise, fatigue, weakness or severe chest pain, back pain, flank pain or groin pain, has been observed with rapid administration of intravenous iron. These hypotensive reactions are not associated with signs of hypersensitivity and have usually resolved within one or two hours. Successful treatment may consist of observation or, if the hypotension causes symptoms, volume expansion. Although Ferrlecit(R) is intended to be administered during the dialysis session in patients receiving hemodialysis, infusion of sodium ferric gluconate complex during dialysis may augment hypotensive episodes associated with the dialysis procedure.Iron is not easily eliminated from the body and accumulation may be toxic. Unnecessary therapy with parenteral iron will cause excess storage with consequent possibility of iatrogenic hemosiderosis. Serum iron levels greater than 300 mcg/dl, combined with transferrin oversaturation, may indicate iron poisoning which is characterized by abdominal pain, diarrhea, or nausea/vomiting which progresses to pallor or cyanosis, lassitude, drowsiness, hyperventilation due to metabolic acidosis, and cardiac arrest. Symptoms of transferrin oversaturation have been reported in two patients. Infusion over a longer period of time or at a lower dose may eliminate oversaturation of transferrin.Adverse events that occurred in >1% of patients, whether or not related to sodium ferric gluconate complex use, are listed below. Hemodialysis patients may have similar symptoms related to dialysis itself or chronic renal failure. These events include injection site reaction (pain), unspecified pain, asthenia, headache, fatigue, fever, malaise, rigors, chills, infection, flu-like syndrome, dizziness, paresthesias, agitation, insomnia, dyspnea, cough, upper respiratory infection, rhinitis, hypertension, syncope, tachycardia, bradycardia, pulmonary edema, dyspepsia, eructation, flatulence, myalgia, arthralgia, pruritus, rash (unspecified), conjunctivitis, visual impairment (abnormal vision), hyperkalemia, leg and generalized edema, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hypervolemia, anemia, lymphadenopathy, and urinary tract infection. Other adverse reactions reported in post-marketing spontaneous reports include seizures, dysgeusia, hypoesthesia, loss of consciousness, pallor, phlebitis, skin discoloration, and shock.Adverse effects associated with sodium ferric gluconate complex in children are generally similar to those reported in adults. During a clinical trial of 66 children aged 6—15 years, the most common adverse events, whether or not related to study drug, occurring in >= 5% were hypotension (35%), headache (24%), hypertension (23%), sinus tachycardia (17%), nausea/vomiting (9—11%), fever (9%), abdominal pain (9%), pharyngitis (9%), diarrhea (8%), infection (8%), rhinitis (6%), and thrombosis (6%). More patients in the 3.0 mg/kg dose group than in the 1.5 mg/kg group experienced hypotension (41% vs. 28%), sinus tachycardia (21% vs. 13%), fever (15% vs. 3%), headache (29% vs. 19%), abdominal pain (15% vs. 3%), nausea/vomiting (12% vs. 9%), pharyngitis (12% vs. 6%), and rhinitis (9% vs.3%).
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    agitation, asthenia, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, malaise, paresthesias, seizures, weakness
    General Information
    During clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex, CNS adverse reactions were reported in both adult and pediatric patients. Headache was reported in 7% of adults and 19% to 29% of pediatric patients. In adults, cramps (25%), dizziness (13%), asthenia (7%), fatigue (6%), somnolence (drowsiness), paresthesias (6%), malaise, lightheadedness, weakness, agitation, and a decreased level of consciousness were also reported. In a single-dose, postmarketing safety study, hypertonia and nervousness were reported in 2 or more patients. There have been postmarketing reports of loss of consciousness, generalized convulsion (seizures), and hypoesthesia. During adult clinical trials with ferric pyrophosphate citrate, asthenia (4% vs. 3%), fatigue (4% vs. 2%), and headache (9% vs. 5%) were reported in patients receiving study drug relative to placebo; adverse reactions leading to treatment discontinuation included headache, asthenia, and dizziness.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, pharyngitis, rhinitis
    General Information
    During clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex, respiratory adverse reactions were reported in both adult and pediatric patients. Rhinitis was reported in both adult (incidence not reported) and pediatric patients (3% to 9%). In adults, dyspnea (11%), cough (6%), upper respiratory infections (6%), flu-like syndrome, and pneumonia were reported. In pediatric trials, pharyngitis (6% to 12%) was reported. During adult clinical trials with ferric pyrophosphate citrate, dyspnea was reported in 6% of patients receiving study drug vs. 4% of patients receiving placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angina, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, fetal bradycardia, flank pain, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, peripheral vasodilation, pulmonary edema, sinus tachycardia, syncope
    General Information
    During clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex, cardiovascular adverse events reported in both adult and pediatric trials included hypotension (29% adults, 28% to 41% pediatrics), hypertension (13% adults, 23% pediatrics), and sinus tachycardia (5% adults, 13% to 21% pediatrics). In adult trials, chest pain (unspecified) (10%), syncope (6%), bradycardia, peripheral vasodilation, angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, and edema, including generalized edema (5%) and pulmonary edema, were also reported. Fetal bradycardia due to severe maternal hypotension or shock has been reported in postmarketing surveillance. Sodium ferric gluconate may cause clinically significant hypotension. Hypotension associated with lightheadedness, malaise, fatigue, weakness or severe chest, back, groin, or flank pain has been reported. These hypotensive reactions may or may not be associated with signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions and usually resolve within 1 to 2 hours. In a single-dose safety study, post administration hypotensive events were observed in 22/1,097 patients (2%) after sodium ferric gluconate administration. Transient hypotension may occur during dialysis and administration of sodium ferric gluconate complex may augment hypotension caused by dialysis. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hypotension during and after sodium ferric gluconate complex administration. During adult clinical trials with ferric pyrophosphate citrate, procedural hypotension was reported in 22% of patients receiving study drug vs. 19% of patients receiving placebo; intradialytic hypotension led to treatment discontinuation in some cases.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasodilation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary edema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flank pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fetal bradycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, eructation, flatulence, melena, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    During clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex, gastrointestinal adverse reactions were among the most frequently reported in both adult and pediatric patients and included nausea (35% adults, 6% to 12% pediatrics), diarrhea (35% adults, 8% pediatrics), vomiting (35% adults, 9% to 12% pediatrics), and abdominal pain (6% adults, 3% to 15% pediatrics). In adult trials, anorexia, rectal disorder, dyspepsia, eructation, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, and melena were also reported. In a single-dose, postmarketing safety study, xerostomia was reported in 2 or more patients. There have been postmarketing reports of dysgeusia. In adult clinical trails with ferric pyrophosphate citrate, adverse reactions leading to treatment discontinuation included constipation and nausea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      melena
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      eructation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anemia, bleeding, leukocytosis, lymphadenopathy, thrombosis
    General Information
    Hematologic adverse reactions reported in adult patients during clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex included abnormal erythrocytes (11%, including changes in morphology, color, or number of red blood cells), anemia, leukocytosis, and lymphadenopathy. Thrombosis was reported in 6% of pediatric patients. In a single-dose, postmarketing safety study, hemorrhage was reported in 2 or more patients. During adult clinical trials with ferric pyrophosphate citrate, arteriovenous fistula thrombosis (3% vs. 2%) and arteriovenous fistula site bleeding (3% vs. 2%) were reported in patients receiving study drug relative to placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukocytosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      lymphadenopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperhidrosis, injection site reaction, pallor, phlebitis, pruritus, rash, skin discoloration, urticaria
    General Information
    During adult clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex, injection site reaction was among the most commonly reported adverse events at 33%. Pruritus (6%), rash, and hyperhidrosis were also reported in adult trials. There have been postmarketing reports of superficial thrombo-phlebitis at injection site, skin discoloration, pallor, urticaria, and peripheral sweating. In clinical trials with ferric pyrophosphate citrate, pruritus led to treatment discontinuation in some cases.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      phlebitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pallor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      skin discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, chills, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    During clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex in adults, musculoskeletal adverse reactions were reported, including leg cramps (10%), unspecified pain (10%), myalgia, arthralgia, back pain, leg pain, musculoskeletal pain (i.e., arm pain), malaise, chills, and rigors. In a single-dose, postmarketing safety study, back pain was reported in 0.4% of patients and hypertonia was reported in 2 or more patients. During adult clinical trials with ferric pyrophosphate citrate, muscle cramps (10% vs. 8%), pain in extremity (7% vs. 6%) and back pain (5% vs. 3%) were reported in patients receiving study drug relative to placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, diaphoresis, flushing, wheezing
    General Information
    Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions, some of which have been life-threatening and fatal, have been reported in patients receiving parenteral iron, including sodium ferric gluconate complex, in postmarketing experience. Patients may present with shock, clinically significant hypotension, loss of consciousness, or collapse. Hypersensitivity reactions have also been reported after previously uneventful doses of parenteral iron complexes. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity during and for at least 30 minutes after completion of sodium ferric gluconate complex; ferric pyrophosphate citrate administration and until clinically stable. In a single-dose, postmarketing safety study with sodium ferric gluconate complex, 1 patient (0.09%) experienced a life-threatening hypersensitivity reaction characterized by dyspnea, diaphoresis, nausea, vomiting, severe lower back pain, and wheezing for 20 minutes. An additional 8 patients experienced an adverse reaction that precluded further drug administration; these included 6 allergic reactions (including pruritus, facial flushing, chills, dyspnea/chest pain, rash) and 1 each of hypotension and nausea. Hypersensitivity reactions were reported in 0.3% of patients receiving ferric pyrophosphate citrate in 2 randomized clinical trials; hypersensitivity reactions led to treatment discontinuation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      diaphoresis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hemosiderosis
    General Information
    Excessive therapy with parenteral iron can lead to excess storage of iron with the possibility of iatrogenic hemosiderosis. Patients receiving sodium ferric gluconate complex; ferric pyrophosphate citrate require periodic monitoring of hematologic and iron parameters (i.e., hemoglobin, hematocrit, serum ferritin, and transferrin saturation). Determine iron status on pre-dialysis blood samples. Post-dialysis serum iron parameters may overestimate serum iron and transferrin saturation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hemosiderosis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    fever, infection
    General Information
    During clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex, adverse events reported in both adult and pediatric patients included infection (urinary tract infections in adults, rate not reported; infection overall, 8% pediatrics) and fever (5% adults, 3% to 15% pediatrics). During clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex in adults, adverse events including infection, abscess, carcinoma, sepsis, and peripheral swelling were reported. During adult clinical trials with ferric pyrophosphate citrate, fever (5% vs. 3%) and urinary tract infection (5% vs. 1%) were reported in patients receiving study drug relative to placebo; fever led to treatment discontinuation in some cases.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    menorrhagia
    General Information
    During clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex, menorrhagia was reported in adult patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      menorrhagia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    conjunctivitis, diplopia, hearing loss
    General Information
    During adult clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex, conjunctivitis, rolling of the eyes, watery eyes, puffy eye lids, arcus senilis, redness of the eye, diplopia, and deafness (hearing loss) were reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hearing loss
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hypervolemia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, peripheral edema
    General Information
    During adult clinical trials with sodium ferric gluconate complex, hyperkalemia (6%), generalized edema (5%), leg edema, peripheral edema, hypoglycemia, edema, hypervolemia, and hypokalemia were reported. During adult clinical trials with ferric pyrophosphate citrate, peripheral edema was reported in 7% of patients receiving study drug versus 4% of patients receiving placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypervolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Sodium ferric gluconate complex is an injectable iron replacement product indicated for the treatment of iron-deficiency anemia in adults and pediatric patients age 6 years and older with chronic kidney disease receiving hemodialysis who are receiving supplemental epoetin therapy. Undiluted sodium ferric gluconate complex may be given without a test dose. Ferric pyrophosphate citrate is an injectable iron replacement product indicated to maintain hemoglobin in adult patients with hemodialysis-dependent chronic kidney disease; it is also used as an iron solution for addition to bicarbonate dialysate. Parenteral iron is preferred over oral iron therapy when rapid repletion of iron-depleted patients is desired. A retrospective analysis of reported adverse medication events indicated a significantly lower mortality rate (p less than 0.001) with the use of sodium ferric gluconate complex compared to iron dextran.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Normal erythropoiesis depends on the concentration of iron and erythropoietin available in the plasma, both being decreased in renal failure. Exogenous administration of erythropoietin increases red blood cell production and iron utilization, contributing to iron deficiency in hemodialysis patients. A therapeutic response to treatment with sodium ferric gluconate complex; ferric pyrophosphate citrate is dependent upon the patient's ability to use the iron. Use of iron is influenced by the cause of the deficiency as well as other illnesses that can affect normal erythropoiesis. Protein-energy malnutrition can prevent the incorporation of iron into the erythrocyte regardless of the quantity of iron stored. Only when lean body mass expands will iron be used. Iron therapy alone does not increase red blood cell production. Administration of iron will only improve anemia associated with iron deficiency.
 
There is some concern that intravenously administered iron is not used appropriately by the body and little is available for use in the bone marrow. Both animal and human data indicate the bulk of intravenously administered iron is sequestered in the reticuloendothelial system (i.e. liver, spleen), which could lead to hepatosplenic hemosiderosis (an increase in iron storage without associated tissue damage). Parenterally administered iron predominantly accumulates in the Kupffer cells of the liver's macrophage system, leading to less harm than excess body iron stored in the parenchyma. This information is associated with injectable iron products containing dextran polysaccharides.
 
Iron-containing proteins and enzymes are important in oxidation-reduction reactions, especially those of the mitochondria. Iron is a component of myoglobin and several heme-enzymes, including the cytochromes, catalase, and peroxidase. Iron is an essential component of the metalloflavoprotein enzymes and the mitochondrial enzyme alpha-glycerophosphate oxidase. Iron-containing proteins and enzymes are important in oxidation-reduction reactions, especially those of the mitochondria. Furthermore, iron is a cofactor for enzymes such as aconitase and tryptophan pyrrolase. Iron deficiency not only causes anemia and decreased oxygen delivery, it also reduces the metabolism of muscle and decreases mitochondrial activity. Iron deficiency can also lead to defects in learning or thermoregulation. Thus iron is important to several metabolic functions which are independent of its importance to erythropoesis.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    Sodium ferric gluconate complex:
Multiple, sequential, single-dose, intravenous pharmacokinetic studies were performed on 14 healthy iron-deficient patients. Patients were randomized to receive undiluted sodium ferric gluconate complex by slow IV infusion: either 125 mg (infused over 1 hour) or 62.5 mg (infused over 0.5 hour). Five days after the first stage, each subject was re-randomized to undiluted sodium ferric gluconate complex by rapid IV infusion: either 125 mg (infused over 7 minutes) or 62.5 mg (infused over 4 minutes). Cmax concentrations varied by dosage and rate of administration. The highest Cmax (19 mg/L) was observed in the group who received 125 mg by rapid IV infusion. The initial volume of distribution of 6 L corresponds well to calculated blood volume. The terminal elimination half-life was approximately 1 hour ranging from 0.85 hours for the 62.5 mg rapid IV infusion (4 minutes) group to 1.45 hours for the 125 mg rapid infusion (7 minutes) group. Total clearance was 3.02 to 5.35 L/hour. The AUC for sodium ferric gluconate complex varied by dose from 17.5 mg-hour/L for patients receiving 62.5 mg to 35.6 mg-hour/L for patients receiving 125 mg. The rate of administration did not cause variation in the terminal elimination half-life, clearance, or AUC. Approximately 80% of drug bound iron was delivered to transferrin as a mononuclear ionic iron species within 24 hours of administration in each dosage regimen. Direct movement of iron from sodium ferric gluconate complex was not observed. Mean peak transferrin saturation did not exceed 100% and returned to near baseline by 40 hours after administration of each dosage regimen. Studies in renally competent patients suggest urinary excretion of sodium ferric gluconate complex is clinically insignificant.
 
Ferric pyrophosphate citrate:
The pharmacokinetics of serum iron were investigated in healthy volunteers administered 2.5, 5, 7.5 and 10 mg ferric pyrophosphate citrate IV over 4 hours, or 15 mg and 20 mg IV over 12 hours. After correcting for the basal iron concentrations, the AUC and Cmax of baseline-corrected serum iron increased in a dose-proportional manner. After intravenous infusion over 4 hours at 2.5, 5, 7.5 and 10 mg doses, serum iron half-life was approximately 1.48 hours, with a mean clearance (CL) ranging from 0.406 to 0.556 L/hour and a volume of distribution (Vz) ranging from 0.765 to 0.859 L; higher mean clearance and volume of distributions were observed after 15 mg (CL = 0.672 L/hour and Vz = 1.66 L) and 20 mg (CL = 0.661 L/hour, Vz = 2.08L) IV over 12 hours. Following administration of ferric pyrophosphate citrate 6.75 mg via a 3-hour intravenous infusion, the total plasma iron exposure values were 1,260 and 1,230 mcg x hr/dL for administration via pre- and post-dialyzer infusion lines, respectively. Transferrin bound iron exposures were 1,250 and 1,190 mcg x hr/dL, respectively.
    Name
    Other Route(s)
    Description
    Intravascular Route
Ferric pyrophosphate citrate:
In a study that assessed the impact of different dialysis conditions on iron delivery in patients administered ferric pyrophosphate citrate via hemodialysis, a reduction of the blood and dialysate flow rates (Qb/Qd of 200/400 mL/minute vs. 350 or more/600 or more mL/minute) resulted in a 33% decrease in the median cumulative iron delivered.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In vitro experiments with both diluted and undiluted sodium ferric gluconate complex demonstrate that less than 1% of the iron species within the compound is dialyzable.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Sodium ferric gluconate complex:
Single intravenous dose pharmacokinetics have been performed in 48 iron-deficient children aged 6 to 15 years. Children receiving 1.5 mg/kg had a Cmax of 12.9 mg/L, an AUC of 95 mg-hour/L, and a terminal elimination half-life of 2 hours. Children receiving 3 mg/kg had a Cmax of 22.8 mg/L, an AUC of 170.9 mg-hour/L, and a terminal elimination half-life of 2.5 hours.
  Text
  Sodium ferric gluconate complex is administered intravenously; ferric pyrophosphate citrate is administered intravenously or added to a bicarbonate dialysate for hemodialysis therapy.
 
Iron therapy dosage is individualized according to patient goals for serum iron concentrations, iron storage parameters (e.g., ferritin, transferrin saturation), and serum hemoglobin concentrations. Iron toxicity may occur with excessive or unnecessary iron therapy. Systemic iron is stored in compounds called ferritin and hemosiderin, which are used for future use in the production of hemoglobin. The absorption of iron depends upon the route of entry. The tissue that first clears parenterally administered iron from the bloodstream determines the bioavailability. If the reticuloendothelial system clears iron, only small amounts will be available over time to the bone marrow. Transferrin accepts iron from the intestinal tract or from sites of storage or hemoglobin destruction. Iron is then transported in plasma bound to transferrin and distributed to the bone marrow for hemoglobin synthesis, to the reticuloendothelial system for storage, to all cells for enzymes containing iron and to placental cells to meet fetal needs. Transferrin eventually becomes available for reuse. There is no destructive metabolism of iron because it takes place in a closed system. In normal adults, 90% of metabolized iron is conserved and reutilized repeatedly. Very little iron is excreted. In normal, healthy adults, some daily loss of iron occurs through normal skin, hair, and nail loss, and GI losses. Menstruating women have an increased loss as do other persons with loss of blood.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Sodium ferric gluconate complex
Dilution
Adults: Dilute 125 mg of elemental iron in 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Pediatrics: Dilute each dose in 25 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
 
Intravenous Injection
Adults only: May administer undiluted, at a rate of 12.5 mg/minute or less to prevent hypotension.
Do not mix or infuse with TPN or any intravenous fluid other than 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
 
Intravenous Infusion
Administer immediately after dilution.
Infuse over 60 minutes. To prevent hypotension and flushing, do not exceed the recommended rate of administration of 2.1 mg/minute.
Do not mix or infuse with TPN or any intravenous fluid other than 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
 
 
Ferric pyrophosphate citrate
Preparation
No dilution required.
Each ampule is for single-use only; discard unused portion.
 
Intravenous Infusion
Holding the top of the ampule, shake with one single downward movement to remove any solution in the cap. Twist the top of the ampule until the neck breaks off the top.
Attach a 10 mL or 20 mL Luer-lock syringe to the ampule and withdraw the contents (6.75 mg in 4.5 mL).
Connect the syringe to the attached predialyzer infusion line, postdialyzer infusion line, or to a separate connection to the venous blood line.
Attach the syringe to a syringe pump and administer as a slow continuous infusion over 3 to 4 hours.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Only administer parenteral iron in settings where personnel and therapies are immediately available for the treatment of anaphylaxis and other hypersensitivity reactions.
Visually inspect solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
    Name
    Other Administration Route(s)
    Description
    Intravascular Administration
Ferric pyrophosphate citrate
Ferric pyrophosphate citrate should only be added to the bicarbonate concentrate; do not add to acid concentrate mixtures.
Inspect each ampule for signs of precipitation prior to mixing with bicarbonate concentrate. Ferric pyrophosphate citrate should be slightly yellow-green in color.
Intravascular administration
Add 27.2 mg (5 mL ampule) to 2.5 gallons of bicarbonate concentrate or 272 mg (50 mL ampule or 1 powder packet) to 25 gallons of bicarbonate concentrate.
The final concentration of iron in the dialysate is 110 mcg/L (2 micromolar).
Multiple ampules may be added to the master bicarbonate mix at each dialysis center at a ratio of 27.2 mg (5 mL ampule) to each 2.5 gallons of bicarbonate concentrate or 272 mg (50 mL ampule or 1 powder packet) to each 25 gallons of bicarbonate concentrate.
Administer at each dialysis session for as long as patients are receiving maintenance hemodialysis therapy for chronic kidney disease.
Use hemodialysis solutions within 24 hours of the preparation of the ferric pyrophosphate citrate/bicarbonate concentrate mixture.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Sodium ferric gluconate complex:
125 mg/dose IV; higher doses may be associated with higher incidence and/or severity of adverse reactions.
Ferric pyrophosphate citrate:
6.75 mg/dose IV; maximum dosage is not defined for hemodialysate use; dose is dependent on dialysate volume used during hemodialysis session.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Sodium ferric gluconate complex:
125 mg/dose IV; higher doses may be associated with higher incidence and/or severity of adverse reactions.
Ferric pyrophosphate citrate:
6.75 mg/dose IV; maximum dosage is not defined for hemodialysate use; dose is dependent on dialysate volume used during hemodialysis session.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Sodium ferric gluconate complex:
1.5 mg/kg/dose (Max: 125 mg/dose) IV.
Ferric pyrophosphate citrate:
Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Sodium ferric gluconate complex:
6 to 12 years: 1.5 mg/kg/dose (Max: 125 mg/dose) IV.
1 to 5 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
Ferric pyrophosphate citrate:
Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Patients with hepatic disease should receive sodium ferric gluconate complex; ferric pyrophosphate citrate with caution. The liver is one of the main storage sites for iron, and some patients with chronic liver disease may have excessive iron storage. Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available.
  Renal Impairment
  Dosage adjustment is not necessary.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Sodium ferric gluconate complex is not dialyzable and may be administered during dialysis.
