=== Atogepant — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5359)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Atogepant is an oral calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist indicated for the preventive treatment of episodic or chronic migraine in adults.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 60 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, pruritus, rash, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Avoid atogepant use in individuals with hepatic failure or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) due to the risk for hepatic injury. This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

ATOGEPANT

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

QULIPTA

Indication Specific Dosing

Guideline indications for initiating migraine prevention with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonists:
Consider as a first-line preventative therapy for episodic migraine with or without aura (4 to 14 monthly migraine days) based upon ICHD-3 with at least moderate disability, defined by Migraine Disability Assessment Score (MIDAS) of 11 or more or 6-item Headache Impact Test Score (HIT-6) more than 50.
Consider as a first-line preventative therapy for chronic migraine with or without aura (15 or more monthly headache days) based upon ICHD-3.


For migraine prophylaxis

For episodic migraine prophylaxis
Oral dosage
Adults


10, 30, or 60 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain other drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Guidelines classify atogepant as having established efficacy for episodic migraine prophylaxis.


For chronic migraine prophylaxis
Oral dosage
Adults


60 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain other drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Guidelines classify atogepant as having established efficacy for chronic migraine prophylaxis.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Avoid atogepant use in individuals with hepatic failure or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) due to the risk for hepatic injury.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

renal failure, renal impairment


Dosage modification is recommended for individuals with episodic migraine with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute) or renal failure (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute). Avoid atogepant use in individuals with chronic migraine with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute). For individuals with end-stage renal disease receiving dialysis, administer atogepant after dialysis. The renal route of elimination plays a minor role in the clearance of atogepant.


hypertension


Monitor individuals with pre-existing hypertension for worsening of hypertension during treatment with atogepant. Consider whether discontinuation of atogepant is warranted if evaluation fails to establish an alternative etiology for worsening of hypertension or blood pressure is inadequately controlled.


Raynaud's phenomenon


Monitor individuals with a history of Raynaud phenomenon for, and inform them about the possibility of, worsening or recurrence of signs and symptoms during treatment with atogepant. Discontinue atogepant if signs or symptoms of Raynaud phenomenon develop, and evaluate individuals if symptoms do not resolve.


pregnancy


There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with atogepant use during human pregnancy. Individuals with migraine may be at increased risk of preeclampsia and gestational hypertension during pregnancy. In animal studies, oral administration of atogepant during the period of organogenesis or throughout pregnancy resulted in adverse developmental effects (decreased fetal and offspring body weight in rats; increased incidence of fetal structural variations in rabbits) at exposures greater than those used clinically. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in people who become pregnant while taking atogepant. Encourage pregnant individuals to enroll by calling 1-833-277-0206 or visiting http://empresspregnancyregistry.com.


breast-feeding


Use atogepant with caution during breast-feeding. Low concentrations of atogepant are present in human milk. The estimated relative infant dose is approximately 0.19% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose, and the milk-to-plasma ratio is 0.08. After a single oral dose of atogepant 60 mg, 25% of females had detectable levels of atogepant in breast milk 16 to 24 hours after dosing. The mean cumulative amount of atogepant excreted in breast milk over 24 hours was less than 0.01 mg of a 60 mg dose. There are no data on the effects of atogepant on the breastfed child or its effects on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for atogepant and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from atogepant or the underlying maternal condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with atogepant use during human pregnancy. Individuals with migraine may be at increased risk of preeclampsia and gestational hypertension during pregnancy. In animal studies, oral administration of atogepant during the period of organogenesis or throughout pregnancy resulted in adverse developmental effects (decreased fetal and offspring body weight in rats; increased incidence of fetal structural variations in rabbits) at exposures greater than those used clinically. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in people who become pregnant while taking atogepant. Encourage pregnant individuals to enroll by calling 1-833-277-0206 or visiting http://empresspregnancyregistry.com.


Interactions

Adagrasib: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with adagrasib. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and apalutamide when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with apalutamide is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Armodafinil: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with armodafinil is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Atazanavir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with atazanavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with atazanavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration. (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Belumosudil: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and belumosudil is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Belzutifan: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with belzutifan is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and belzutifan is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and bexarotene when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with bexarotene is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and bosentan when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with bosentan is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Brigatinib: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with brigatinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and brigatinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and carbamazepine when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with carbamazepine is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and cenobamate when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with cenobamate is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with ceritinib. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with chloramphenicol. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
cloBAZam: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with clobazam is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and clobazam is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Cobicistat: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with cyclosporine. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and cyclosporine is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and dabrafenib when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with dabrafenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Darolutamide: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with darolutamide. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and darolutamide is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Darunavir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with darunavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration. (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with darunavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration. (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with darunavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Deferasirox: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with deferasirox is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and deferasirox is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
dexAMETHasone: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with dexamethasone is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and dexamethasone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and efavirenz when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with efavirenz is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and efavirenz when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with efavirenz is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and efavirenz when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with efavirenz is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elafibranor: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with elafibranor is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and elagolix when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with elagolix is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and elagolix when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with elagolix is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with elexacaftor. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and elexacaftor is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Eltrombopag: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with eltrombopag. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and eltrombopag is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Eluxadoline: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with eluxadoline. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and eluxadoline is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of atogepant and enasidenib due to unpredictable effects on atogepant. Concurrent use may alter atogepant exposure and decrease its efficacy and/or increase the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and enasidenib is a OATP inhibitor and weak CYP3A inducer. The net effect on atogepant exposure is unknown. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and encorafenib due to the risk for altered atogepant exposure. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy or increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer and OATP inhibitor. The net effect on atogepant exposure is unknown. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and enzalutamide when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with enzalutamide is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Erythromycin: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with erythromycin. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and erythromycin is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and eslicarbazepine when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with eslicarbazepine is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and etravirine when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with etravirine is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and fexinidazole when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and phenytoin when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with phenytoin is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with fostemsavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and fostemsavir is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Gemfibrozil: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with gemfibrozil. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and gemfibrozil is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with glecaprevir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and glecaprevir is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration. (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with pibrentasvir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and pibrentasvir is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Glycerol Phenylbutyrate: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with glycerol phenylbutyrate is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and glycerol phenylbutyrate is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during atogepant treatment due to the risk for increased atogepant exposure and adverse reactions.
Idelalisib: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with idelalisib. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Itraconazole: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with itraconazole. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with ivosidenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ivosidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with ketoconazole. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Leflunomide: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with leflunomide. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and leflunomide is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Leniolisib: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with leniolisib. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and leniolisib is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Letermovir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with letermovir. If atogepant is used with combination letermovir plus cyclosporine, limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily for all indications. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate, letermovir is an OATP inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with ketoconazole. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with lonafarnib. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with ritonavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with lopinavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and lopinavir is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and lorlatinib when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with lorlatinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and lumacaftor; ivacaftor when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and lumacaftor; ivacaftor when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Mavacamten: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with mavacamten is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Meropenem: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with meropenem is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with meropenem is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Midostaurin: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and midostaurin is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with mifepristone. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Mitapivat: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with mitapivat is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and mitotane when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with mitotane is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with mobocertinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Modafinil: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with modafinil is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and modafinil is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and nafcillin when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with nafcillin is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nefazodone: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with nefazodone. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with nelfinavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Nevirapine: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with nevirapine is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with ritonavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Odevixibat: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with odevixibat is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and odevixibat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Olutasidenib: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with olutasidenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and olutasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with omaveloxolone is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and rifabutin when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with rifabutin is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Oritavancin: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with oritavancin is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and oritavancin is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
OXcarbazepine: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with oxcarbazepine is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and oxcarbazepine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and pacritinib when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with pacritinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and pexidartinib when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with pexidartinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with topiramate is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and phenytoin when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with phenytoin is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Pitolisant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with pitolisant is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Posaconazole: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with posaconazole. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Pretomanid: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and pretomanid is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Relacorilant: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with relacorilant. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and repotrectinib when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with repotrectinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Resmetirom: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with resmetirom. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and resmetirom is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Ribociclib: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and rifabutin when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with rifabutin is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and rifampin when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with rifampin is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and rifampin is both a strong CYP3A inducer and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration reduced atogepant overall exposure by approximately 60% and peak concentration by 30%. The observed change in exposure reflects the combined effects of CYP3A induction and OATP1B1/1B3 inhibition.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and rifapentine when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with rifapentine is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and rilzabrutinib is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Ritonavir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with ritonavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Saquinavir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with saquinavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with velpatasvir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and velpatasvir is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with velpatasvir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and velpatasvir is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration. (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with voxilaprevir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and voxilaprevir is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and sotorasib when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with sotorasib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and St. John's wort when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with St. John's wort is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Stiripentol: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with stiripentol is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and stiripentol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Suzetrigine: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with suzetrigine is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with tazemostat is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and tazemostat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Tecovirimat: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with tecovirimat is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and tecovirimat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Telotristat Ethyl: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with telotristat is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and telotristat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with teriflunomide. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and teriflunomide is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Tipranavir: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with tipranavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Topiramate: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with topiramate is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Tovorafenib: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with tovorafenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Tucatinib: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with tucatinib. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Voclosporin: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with voclosporin. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and voclosporin is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with vorasidenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Voriconazole: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with voriconazole. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with zanubrutinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and zanubrutinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.


Adverse Reaction
drowsiness, fatigue


In clinical trials, drowsiness or fatigue occurred in 4% of subjects given atogepant 10 mg (n = 314), 4% of subjects given 30 mg (n = 411), and 5% of subjects given 60 mg (n = 678) compared to 4% of subjects given placebo (n = 663). Drowsiness or fatigue led to treatment discontinuation in 0.2% of subjects across clinical trials.


constipation, nausea


In clinical trials, nausea occurred in 5% of subjects given atogepant 10 mg (n = 314), 6% of subjects given 30 mg (n = 411), and 9% of subjects given 60 mg (n = 678), compared to 3% of subjects given placebo (n = 663). Constipation occurred in 6% of subjects given atogepant 10 or 30 mg, 8% of subjects given 60 mg, and 2% of subjects given placebo. Nausea and constipation led to treatment discontinuation in 0.6% and 0.5% of subjects, respectively, across clinical trials.


anorexia, weight loss


In clinical trials, decreased appetite (anorexia) occurred in 2% of subjects given atogepant 10 mg (n = 314), 1% of subjects given 30 mg (n = 411), and 3% of subjects given 60 mg (n = 678) compared to less than 1% of subjects given placebo (n = 663). Weight loss of at least 7% at any point occurred in 3.8% of subjects given atogepant 10 mg, 3.2% of subjects given 30 mg, and 5.3% of subjects given 60 mg compared to 2.5% of subjects given placebo.


elevated hepatic enzymes


In clinical trials, atogepant was temporally associated with asymptomatic cases of elevated hepatic enzymes over 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN); elevated hepatic enzymes over 3 times the ULN occurred in 0.9% of subjects given atogepant compared to 1.2% of subjects given placebo. Cases resolved within 8 weeks of discontinuation. There were no cases of jaundice or severe hepatic injury.


anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, pruritus, rash, urticaria


Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, rash, pruritus, urticaria, and facial edema have been reported during postmarketing experience with atogepant. Hypersensitivity reactions can occur days after atogepant administration. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, institute appropriate therapy and discontinue atogepant.


hypertension


Development of hypertension and worsening of preexisting hypertension have been reported with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) antagonists, including atogepant, during postmarketing surveillance. Some subjects who developed new-onset hypertension had risk factors for hypertension. There were cases requiring initiation of pharmacological treatment for hypertension or hospitalization. Hypertension may occur at any time during treatment, but it was most frequently reported within 7 days of therapy initiation. The CGRP antagonist was discontinued in many of the reported cases. Monitor individuals for new-onset hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension during atogepant treatment. Consider whether discontinuation of atogepant is warranted if evaluation fails to establish an alternative etiology for hypertension or blood pressure is inadequately controlled.


Raynaud phenomenon


Raynaud phenomenon and recurrence or worsening of pre-existing Raynaud phenomenon have been reported with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) antagonists, including atogepant, during postmarketing surveillance. In reported cases with small molecule CGRP antagonists, symptom onset occurred a median of 1.5 days after administration. Many of the cases reported serious outcomes, including hospitalizations and disability, generally related to debilitating pain. In most reported cases, discontinuation of the CGRP antagonist resulted in resolution of symptoms. Discontinue atogepant if signs or symptoms of Raynaud phenomenon develop, and evaluate individuals if symptoms do not resolve.


Description

Atogepant is an oral calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist indicated for the preventive treatment of episodic or chronic migraine in adults. In 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials for the preventative treatment of episodic migraine, atogepant significantly reduced monthly migraine days in comparison to placebo across 12 weeks. Monthly migraine days were reduced by 3.6 to 4.2 days for subjects given atogepant compared to 2.5 to 2.8 days for placebo from a baseline of approximately 8 days/month. A 50% or more reduction in monthly migraine days was achieved by 56%, 59%, and 61% of subjects treated with atogepant 10, 30, and 60 mg, respectively, compared to 29% of subjects given placebo. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial for the preventative treatment of chronic migraine, atogepant significantly reduced monthly migraine days in comparison to placebo across 12 weeks. Monthly migraine days were reduced by a mean of 6.9 days for subjects given atogepant compared to a mean of 5.1 days for placebo from a baseline of approximately 19 days/month. A 50% or more reduction in monthly migraine days was achieved by 41% of subjects treated with atogepant 60 mg compared to 26% of subjects given placebo. The most common adverse reactions associated with atogepant are fatigue, nausea, and constipation. Coadministration of certain other drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary.

Mechanism Of Action

Atogepant is a calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist. CGRP is distributed throughout the nervous system, and it is concentrated at anatomical sites, such as the trigeminovascular system, which are involved in migraine pathophysiology. Centrally, CGRP is involved in nociceptive transmission through second and third-order neurons and pain modulation in the brainstem. Peripherally, CGRP mediates vasodilation through smooth muscle receptors. CGRP concentrations are elevated during acute migraine attacks and may be chronically elevated in chronic migraineurs.

Pharmacokinetics


Atogepant is administered orally. Plasma protein binding of atogepant is not concentration dependent in the range of 0.1 to 10 micromolar, and the unbound fraction of atogepant is approximately 4.7% in plasma. The mean apparent Vd (Vz/F) of atogepant is approximately 292 L. Atogepant is eliminated mainly through metabolism, primarily by CYP3A4. The parent compound and a glucuronide conjugate metabolite (M23) are the most prevalent circulating components in human plasma. The mean apparent oral clearance (CL/F) of atogepant is approximately 19 L/hour. After a single 50 mg oral dose, approximately 42% and 5% of the dose were recovered as unchanged atogepant in feces and urine, respectively. The elimination half-life of atogepant is approximately 11 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, OATP1B1, OATP1B3
Atogepant is a substrate of CYP3A4, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, and P-gp and a weak inhibitor of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, and MATE1. Atogepant dosage adjustments are recommended for strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, strong, moderate, or weak CYP3A4 inducers, and OATP inhibitors. Coadministration of atogepant with BCRP and/or P-gp inhibitors is not expected to increase the exposure of atogepant. No clinical drug interactions are expected for atogepant as a perpetrator with drug transporters.


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

After once daily dosing, atogepant displays dose-proportional pharmacokinetics up to 170 mg, with no accumulation. The Cmax occurs at approximately 1 to 2 hours after oral administration. Although not significant, administration of atogepant with a high-fat meal reduced AUC and Cmax by approximately 18% and 22%, respectively; median Tmax was not affected.

Hepatic Impairment

In subjects with preexisting mild (Child-Pugh Class A), moderate (Child-Pugh Class B), or severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment, atogepant exposure was increased by 24%, 15%, and 38%, respectively.

Renal Impairment

There is no significant difference in the pharmacokinetics of atogepant in people with mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/minute) relative to those with normal renal function (CrCl more than 90 mL/minute). People with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) have not been studied.

Geriatric

Age did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of atogepant.

Gender Differences

Gender did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of atogepant.

Ethnic Differences

Race did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of atogepant.

Obesity

Body weight did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of atogepant.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Administer with or without food.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

60 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

60 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

QULIPTA 10mg Tablet

QULIPTA 30mg Tablet

QULIPTA 60mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Avoid use in people with severe hepatic impairment. No dosage adjustment is needed for mild or moderate hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

CrCl 30 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed for mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or more).
CrCl less than 30 mL/minute: Limit the atogepant dose to 10 mg PO once daily in people with episodic migraine and severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute) or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute). Avoid atogepant use in people with chronic migraine and severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute) or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute).
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Limit the atogepant dose to 10 mg PO once daily in people with episodic migraine and severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute) or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute). Administer atogepant after dialysis. Atogepant use is not recommended in people with chronic migraine and severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute) or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute).

© 2026 Elsevier