=== Armodafinil — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3423)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Armodafinil is a psychostimulant and the R-enantiomer of the racemic compound modafinil.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 250 mg/day PO for narcolepsy and OSA/HS; 150 mg/day PO for circadian rhythm disruption.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, headache, insomnia, migraine, paresthesias, tremor, agitation, anxiety, depression, hallucinations, mania, restlessness, suicidal ideation, fatigue, fever, influenza, physiological dependence, psychological dependence, tolerance, withdrawal

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Armodafinil is also contraindicated in people with a history of hypersensitivity to modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil.

ARMODAFINIL

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

NUVIGIL

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of excessive sleepiness associated with narcolepsy

Oral dosage
Adults


150 to 250 mg PO once daily.


Children† and Adolescents 6 to 17 years†


50 to 250 mg/day PO in 1 or 2 divided doses.


For the treatment of shift work sleep disorder to improve wakefulness in people with excessive sleepiness

Oral dosage
Adults, including Geriatric Adults


150 mg PO once daily, given approximately 1 hour prior to the start of work shift. In geriatric adults, use lowest effective dose due to the possibility of adverse effects from decreased drug elimination.


Adolescents 17 years


150 mg PO once daily, given approximately 1 hour prior to the start of work shift.


For the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea to improve wakefulness in patients with excessive sleepiness

Oral dosage
Adults, including Geriatric Adults


150 mg to 250 mg PO once daily as a single dose in the morning. Doses of 250 mg/day have been well tolerated; however, there is no consistent evidence indicating that this dose provides additional therapeutic benefits. In geriatric adults, use lowest effective dose due to the possibility of adverse effects from decreased drug elimination.


Adolescents 17 years and older


150 mg to 250 mg PO once daily as a single dose in the morning. Doses of 250 mg/day have been well tolerated; however, there is no consistent evidence indicating that this dose provides additional therapeutic benefits.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Armodafinil is also contraindicated in people with a history of hypersensitivity to modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil.

depression, mania, psychotic disorder, suicidal ideation


Various adverse psychiatric effects (e.g., mania, delusions, hallucinations, suicidal ideation, aggression) have occurred during administration of armodafinil. Caution should be exercised when administering armodafinil to patients with a history of a psychotic disorder (e.g., schizophrenia, psychosis), depression, suicidal ideation, or mania. Many patients who have developed psychiatric adverse reactions had a prior psychiatric history and such patients may need behavioral assessment or frequent clinical observation. If psychiatric symptoms develop during treatment with armodafinil, consider discontinuation of the drug.


cardiovascular disease


Caution is advised when prescribing armodafinil to patients with known cardiovascular disease. Armodafinil use should be avoided in patients with a history of left ventricular hypertrophy or in people with mitral valve prolapse (valvular heart disease) who have experienced mitral valve prolapse syndrome when previously receiving CNS stimulants. Modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, has been associated with cardiovascular side effects in clinical trials including palpitations, chest pain, transient ischemic T-wave changes on ECG, and dyspnea, particularly in patients with valvular heart disease or left ventricular dysfunction. If new onset of these symptoms (including ischemic ECG changes, chest pain, or arrhythmia) occurs during armodafinil treatment, consider cardiac evaluation. Increased monitoring of heart rate and blood pressure may be appropriate in patients taking armodafinil. A small increase in blood pressure occurred in some patients during clinical trials with armodafinil, and in some cases required new or adjusted antihypertensive treatment. There was also a small, but consistent, average increase in pulse rate over placebo
.33467



substance abuse disorder


Central nervous system (CNS) stimulants, such as armodafinil, have a high potential for abuse and misuse, which can lead to the development of a substance abuse disorder. Caution is recommended in patients with a known history of alcohol or other substance abuse disorder. Physicians should follow patients closely, especially those with a history of drug and/or stimulant (e.g., methylphenidate, amphetamine, or cocaine) abuse. Patients should be observed for signs of misuse or abuse (e.g., incrementation of doses or drug-seeking behavior). Misuse and abuse of CNS stimulants can result in potential for overdose or poisoning and death; the risk is increased with higher doses or unapproved methods of administration, such as snorting or injection. Educate patients and their families about these risks, proper storage, and proper disposal of any unused medication. Misuse or abuse may cause increased heart rate, respiratory rate, or blood pressure; sweating; dilated pupils; hyperactivity; restlessness; insomnia; decreased appetite; loss of coordination; tremors; flushed skin; vomiting; and/or abdominal pain. Anxiety, psychosis, hostility, aggression, and suicidal or homicidal ideation have also been observed with stimulant abuse or misuse.


geriatric


Armodafinil should be used with caution in geriatric patients. Pharmacokinetic studies indicate that geriatric patients have a higher systemic exposure to armodafinil than younger adults and initial dosage reductions should be considered in the geriatric patient. Experience in a limited number of patients who were greater than 65 years of age in clinical trials showed an incidence of adverse experiences similar to other age groups.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Although armodafinil has not been shown to produce functional impairment, any CNS stimulant could potentially alter thinking, judgment, or motor skills. Additionally, patients with excessive sleepiness taking armodafinil should be advised that their level of wakefulness may not return to normal even with medication use. Patients should be frequently reassessed for degree of sleepiness and advised to avoid driving or operating machinery or completing other activities requiring coordination and concentration until treatment has been shown to produce levels of wakefulness that permit such activities.


Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


In people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure, the dosage of armodafinil should be reduced. Serum concentrations of modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, increase by 50% and oral clearance is decreased by about 60% in the presence of severe hepatic impairment or cirrhosis (Child-Pugh class C or greater) due to decreased hepatic metabolism.


pregnancy


Limited human pregnancy data for armodafinil are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of adverse outcomes. Intrauterine growth restriction and spontaneous abortion have been reported with armodafinil and modafinil. Animal studies conducted during organogenesis showed developmental toxicity, including increased embryo-fetal and offspring mortality and decreased fetal growth, in pregnant rats exposed to armodafinil or modafinil and in pregnant rabbits exposed to modafinil at clinically relevant plasma exposures. A pregnancy exposure registry monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to armodafinil; enrollment is available by calling 1-866-404-4106. From February 2010 to February 2019, 148 pregnancies were enrolled in the registry: 81 exposed to modafinil, 66 exposed to armodafinil, and 1 exposed to both drugs. Narcolepsy was the most common indication for treatment (70%), and most patients (96%) had first-trimester exposure. Among 122 prospectively followed pregnancies, 110 had known outcomes at publication. Major congenital malformations occurred in 13% of prospective live births (n = 13), which is higher than the estimated background risk of 2% to 4%. Reported malformations included congenital torticollis (n = 4), hypospadias (n = 2), and congenital heart defects (n = 3). The malformation rate remained 13% when prospective and retrospective data were pooled.


breast-feeding


Use armodafinil with caution during breast-feeding. Armodafinil is the R-enantiomer of modafinil and has been detected in low concentrations in human milk from lactating individuals taking modafinil. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the potential risk of drug exposure to the breastfed child, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If armodafinil use is necessary, monitor the breastfed child for possible adverse effects, including agitation, irritability, poor sleep patterns, poor weight gain, and tremor.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Limited human pregnancy data for armodafinil are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of adverse outcomes. Intrauterine growth restriction and spontaneous abortion have been reported with armodafinil and modafinil. Animal studies conducted during organogenesis showed developmental toxicity, including increased embryo-fetal and offspring mortality and decreased fetal growth, in pregnant rats exposed to armodafinil or modafinil and in pregnant rabbits exposed to modafinil at clinically relevant plasma exposures. A pregnancy exposure registry monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to armodafinil; enrollment is available by calling 1-866-404-4106. From February 2010 to February 2019, 148 pregnancies were enrolled in the registry: 81 exposed to modafinil, 66 exposed to armodafinil, and 1 exposed to both drugs. Narcolepsy was the most common indication for treatment (70%), and most patients (96%) had first-trimester exposure. Among 122 prospectively followed pregnancies, 110 had known outcomes at publication. Major congenital malformations occurred in 13% of prospective live births (n = 13), which is higher than the estimated background risk of 2% to 4%. Reported malformations included congenital torticollis (n = 4), hypospadias (n = 2), and congenital heart defects (n = 3). The malformation rate remained 13% when prospective and retrospective data were pooled.


Interactions

Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with armodafinil; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects. (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with armodafinil can decrease dihydrocodeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased dihydromorphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of dihydrocodeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of dihydrocodeine as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of dihydrocodeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Armodafinil is a weak inducer of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
amLODIPine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Amobarbital: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed. (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In theory, dosage reductions may be required for drugs that are largely eliminated via CYP2C19 metabolism such as omeprazole during coadministration with armodafinil. A 40% increase in exposure of omeprazole was observed during coadministration with armodafinil. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines, (e.g., dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine, amphetamine) has not been studied. In a single-dose study of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, no pharmacokinetic interactions occurred but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines, (e.g., dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine, amphetamine) has not been studied. In a single-dose study of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, no pharmacokinetic interactions occurred but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Amphetamines: (Moderate) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines, (e.g., dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine, amphetamine) has not been studied. In a single-dose study of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, no pharmacokinetic interactions occurred but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if armodafinil and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for a possible decrease in the efficacy of aprepitant, fosaprepitant. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares the same drug interactions. Armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer; aprepitant is a CYP3A4 substrate. When a single dose of aprepitant (375 mg, or 3 times the maximum recommended dose) was administered on day 9 of a 14-day rifampin regimen (a strong CYP3A4 inducer), the AUC of aprepitant decreased approximately 11-fold and the mean terminal half-life decreased by 3-fold. The manufacturer of aprepitant recommends avoidance of administration with strong CYP3A4 inducers, but does not provide guidance for weak-to-moderate inducers.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Decreased blood levels of aripiprazole are expected when the drug is coadministered with inducers of CYP3A4, such as armodafinil. A dosage adjustment of aripiprazole may be necessary when these drugs are used concomitantly, and conversely, when armodafinil is discontinued in a patient taking aripiprazole. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A4/5, and a reversible inhibitor of CYP2C19. Artemether is predominantly metabolized by the CYP3A4/5 isoenzyme, with lesser contributions from CYP2C19. Coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In theory, dosage reductions may be required for drugs that are largely eliminated via CYP2C19 metabolism such as omeprazole during coadministration with armodafinil. A 40% increase in exposure of omeprazole was observed during coadministration with armodafinil. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 substrate/inducer and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp, and a substrate of CYP3A4.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with armodafinil is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Barbiturates: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of armodafinil with bedaquiline. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 inducer, which may result in decreased bedaquiline systemic exposure (AUC) and possibly reduced therapeutic effect.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Monitor for anemia and hypoxia if concomitant use of armodafinil with belzutifan is necessary due to increased plasma exposure of belzutifan which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of belzutifan as recommended if anemia or hypoxia occur. Belzutifan is a CYP2C19 substrate and armodafinil is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with armodafinil may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the benzhydrocodone dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of armodafinil may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a benzhydrocodone dosage reduction and monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug of hydrocodone. Armodafinil is a weak in vitro inducer of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of hydrocodone.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines, (e.g., dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine, amphetamine) has not been studied. In a single-dose study of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, no pharmacokinetic interactions occurred but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Because brexpiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, concurrent use of CYP3A4 inducers such as modafinil or armodafinil may result in decreased plasma concentrations of brexpiprazole. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in brexpiprazole efficacy. An increase in brexpiprazole dosage may be clinically warranted in some patients.
buPROPion: (Major) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including non-prescription stimulants and weight loss medications, is associated with an increased seizure risk; seizures may be more likely to occur in these patients during concurrent use of bupropion. Patients should be closely monitored if these combinations are necessary.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including non-prescription stimulants and weight loss medications, is associated with an increased seizure risk; seizures may be more likely to occur in these patients during concurrent use of bupropion. Patients should be closely monitored if these combinations are necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering armodafinil with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions about the interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Armodafinil is an inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with psychostimulants such as armodafinil. Patients taking armodafinil may need to be cautioned to avoid excessive intake of caffeine.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as carbamazepine may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A4. Therefore, decreased carbamazepine serum levels are possible during combined use with armodafinil. Clinically, be alert for increased sleepiness or other indicators of reduced armofafinil efficacy. The potential pharmacodynamic effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant medications are unclear; however, should it be noted that other CNS stimulants (e.g., amphetamines) are known to lower the seizure threshold.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and armodafinil. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and armodafinil is a CYP3A inducer.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carvedilol and armodafinil may result in increased armodafinil concentrations. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor. An in vitro study indicated that and armodafinil is a P-gp substrate. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as cimetidine are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
Citalopram: (Moderate) The plasma concentration of citalopram, a CYP2C19 substrate, may be increased when administered concurrently with armodafinil, a CYP2C19 inhibitor. Because citalopram causes dose-dependent QT prolongation, the maximum daily dose should not exceed 20 mg per day in patients receiving CYP2C19 inhibitors.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) A dosage reduction of clobazam may be necessary during co-administration of armodafinil. Metabolism of N-desmethylclobazam, the active metabolite of clobazam, occurs primarily through CYP2C19 and armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. Extrapolation from pharmacogenomic data indicates that concurrent use of clobazam with moderate or potent inhibitors of CYP2C19 may result in up to a 5-fold increase in exposure to N-desmethylclobazam. Adverse effects, such as sedation, lethargy, ataxia, or insomnia may be potentiated.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In theory, dosage reductions may be required for drugs that are largely eliminated via CYP2C19 metabolism such as clomipramine during coadministration with armodafinil.
Clopidogrel: (Major) Armodafinil may reduce the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel by inhibiting clopidogrel's metabolism to its active metabolite. Use clopidogrel and armodafinil together with caution and monitor for reduced efficacy of clopidogrel. Clopidogrel requires hepatic biotransformation via 2 cytochrome dependent oxidative steps; the CYP2C19 isoenzyme is involved in both steps. Armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of modafinil or armodafinil with clozapine. Modanil and armodafinil have potential to induce CYP1A2, one of the isoenzymes responsible for the metabolism of clozapine. Patients receiving clozapine in combination with a CYP1A2 inducer should be monitored for loss of effectiveness. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. An interaction between modafinil and clozapine has been reported in a case report that resulted in clinical side effects. After the addition of modafinil to the drug regimen of a patient stabilized on clozapine, the patient became symptomatic with dizziness, problems with gait, and sinus tachycardia. Clozapine serum concentrations were found to be elevated. All symptoms resolved and the patient's clozapine levels returned to normal on modafinil discontinuation. The mechanism of the interaction is unclear, but may be related to changes in clozapine metabolism by modafinil. Concomitant therapy of modafinil and clozapine should be approached with close monitoring of the patient's clinical status.
Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 substrate/inducer and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp, and a substrate of CYP3A4.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) If concurrent use of cobimetinib and armodafinil is necessary, use caution and monitor for decreased efficacy of cobimetinib. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A substrate in vitro, and armodafinil is a weak in vitro inducer of CYP3A. The manufacturer of cobimetinib recommends avoiding coadministration of cobimetinib with moderate or strong CYP3A inducers based on simulations demonstrating that cobimetinib exposure would decrease by 73% or 83% when coadministered with a moderate or strong CYP3A inducer, respectively. Guidance is not available regarding concomitant use of cobimetinib with weak CYP3A inducers.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Therefore, armodafinil may induce the metabolism of medications which are substrates for CYP3A4 such as cyclosporine. Increased cyclosporine clearance and decreased cyclosporine concentrations can lead to loss of therapeutic effect. Cyclosporine concentrations should be monitored closely after the addition or discontinuation of armodafinil until a new steady-state level is achieved.
Dapsone: (Minor) The metabolism of dapsone may be accelerated when administered concurrently with armodafinil, a known inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration is expected to decrease the plasma concentration of dapsone and increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine (a metabolite associated with hemolysis). If these drugs must be administered together, closely monitor for a reduction in dapsone efficacy and signs of hemolytic anemia.
Darunavir: (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased darunavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 substrate/inducer. Darunavir is an inhibitor/substrate of CYP3A4.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 substrate/inducer and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp, and a substrate of CYP3A4. (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased darunavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 substrate/inducer. Darunavir is an inhibitor/substrate of CYP3A4.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 substrate/inducer and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp, and a substrate of CYP3A4. (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased darunavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 substrate/inducer. Darunavir is an inhibitor/substrate of CYP3A4.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including methylphenidate derivatives, has not been studied. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines, (e.g., dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine, amphetamine) has not been studied. In a single-dose study of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, no pharmacokinetic interactions occurred but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including non-prescription stimulants and weight loss medications, is associated with an increased seizure risk; seizures may be more likely to occur in these patients during concurrent use of bupropion. Patients should be closely monitored if these combinations are necessary.
diazePAM: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In theory, dosage reductions may be required for drugs that are largely eliminated via CYP2C19 metabolism such as diazepam during coadministration with armodafinil.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with armodafinil; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with armodafinil; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering armodafinil with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions about the interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Armodafinil is an inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response. (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with armodafinil; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Donepezil: (Minor) The elimination of donepezil may be increased by concurrent administration of moderate inducers of CYP3A4, such as modafinil or armodafinil. The clinical effect of this interaction on the efficacy of donepezil has not been determined. Observe patients for evidence of reduced donepezil efficacy if these agents are prescribed concurrently.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Minor) The elimination of donepezil may be increased by concurrent administration of moderate inducers of CYP3A4, such as modafinil or armodafinil. The clinical effect of this interaction on the efficacy of donepezil has not been determined. Observe patients for evidence of reduced donepezil efficacy if these agents are prescribed concurrently.
Doravirine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and armodafinil may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and armodafinil may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and armodafinil may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with armodafinil is necessary, and monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; armodafinil is a weak inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro. Concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
Drospirenone: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Concurrent administration of elbasvir with armodafinil should be avoided if possible. Armodafinil is a moderate CYP3A inducer, while elbasvir is a substrate of CYP3A. Use of these drugs together is expected to decrease the plasma concentrations of elbasvir, and may result in decreased virologic response. (Major) Concurrent administration of grazoprevir with armodafinil should be avoided if possible. Armodafinil is a moderate CYP3A inducer, while grazoprevir is a substrate of CYP3A. Use of these drugs together is expected to decrease the plasma concentrations of grazoprevir, and may result in decreased virologic response.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 substrate/inducer and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp, and a substrate of CYP3A4. (Major) Coadministration of with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased elvitegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 inducer, while elvitegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 substrate/inducer and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp, and a substrate of CYP3A4. (Major) Coadministration of with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased elvitegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 inducer, while elvitegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering armodafinil with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions about the interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Armodafinil is an inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering armodafinil with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions about the interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Armodafinil is an inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Erlotinib: (Moderate) There may be a risk of reduced erlotinib efficacy when coadministered with armodafinil; however, the risk has not been clearly defined. If coadministration is necessary, consider increasing the erlotinib dose by 50 mg increments at 2-week intervals as tolerated, to a maximum of 450 mg. Erlotinib is a CYP3A4 substrate, and armodafinil is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as erythromycin are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) The plasma concentration of escitalopram, a CYP2C19 substrate, may be increased when administered concurrently with armodafinil, a CYP2C19 inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, monitor for escitalopram-associated adverse reactions.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and armodafinil. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as armodafinil, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Estradiol: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol-containing beverages while taking armodafinil. Per the manufacturer, there is no information on the effect of alcohol on armodafinil and alcohol use should be avoided.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer like armodafinil with fentanyl, a CYP3A4 substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Flibanserin: (Major) The concomitant use of flibanserin with CYP3A4 inducers significantly decreases flibanserin exposure compared to the use of flibanserin alone. Therefore, concurrent use of flibanserin and CYP3A4 inducers, such as modafinil or armodafinil, is not recommended. In addition, modafinil and armodafinil are inhibitors of CYP2C19, a minor metabolic pathway of flibanserin.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as fluconazole are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as fluoxetine are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Caution is advised when administering armodafinil with fosamprenavir, as concurrent use may reduce the plasma concentrations of both drugs. Armodafinil is an inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4 and a substrate for the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Amprenavir, the active metabolite of fosamprenavir, is an inducer of P-gp and a substrate of CYP3A4.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Since armodafinil is metabolized by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, and hydantoins (e.g., phenytoin, fosphenytoin) are CYP3A4 inducers. Decreased armodafinil efficacy may result from increased armodafinil metabolism. In addition, armodafinil is an inhibitor of the CYP2C19 and CYP2C9 isoenzymes. Hydantoins are substrates of CYP2C19, and phenytoin is a substrate of CYP2C9. Hydantoin concentrations may increase. Monitor carefully for signs of toxicity; phenytoin concentration monitoring may be helpful.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Since armodafinil is metabolized by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, and hydantoins (e.g., phenytoin, fosphenytoin) are CYP3A4 inducers. Decreased armodafinil efficacy may result from increased armodafinil metabolism. In addition, armodafinil is an inhibitor of the CYP2C19 and CYP2C9 isoenzymes. Hydantoins are substrates of CYP2C19, and phenytoin is a substrate of CYP2C9. Hydantoin concentrations may increase. Monitor carefully for signs of toxicity; phenytoin concentration monitoring may be helpful.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ioflupane I 123: (Major) Hold armodafinil for 3 days, or at least 5 medication half-lives, prior to performing dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging with radiolabeled ioflupane. Armodafinil binds to the dopamine transporter which may interfere with striatal tracer binding and increase the risk for a false-positive scan.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Coadministration of isavuconazonium with armodafinil is not recommended as there is a potential for elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased concentrations of isavuconazonium. Decreased isavuconazonium concentrations may lead to a reduction of antifungal efficacy and the potential for treatment failure. Armodafinil is a CYP3A4 substrate/inducer. Isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a sensitive substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Isocarboxazid: (Major) Armodafinil has not been evaluated for drug interactions with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). It is known that many other CNS stimulants may induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses if administered in combination with drugs with non-selective MAO inhibitor activity. Until more is known regarding the pharmacology of armodafinil, it is prudent avoid the use of armodafinil in the presence of an MAO inhibitor. Due to the prolonged duration of action of MAOIs, a period of at least 14 days between the last dose of the MAOI and the first dose of armodafinil should elapse.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as itraconazole are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in armodafinil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as ketoconazole are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
Levamlodipine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in armodafinil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as ketoconazole are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Use caution during coadministration of armodafinil with MAO inhibitors. Armodafinil has not been evaluated for drug interactions with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including drugs with MAO inhibiting activity (e.g., linezolid). Other CNS stimulants may induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses if administered in combination with drugs with MAO inhibitor activity.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines, (e.g., dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine, amphetamine) has not been studied. In a single-dose study of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, no pharmacokinetic interactions occurred but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Coadministration of ritonavir with armodafinil may result in elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased ritonavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4, and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Ritonavir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of P-gp. Ritonavir is also a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and armodafinil as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A4 substrate; armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Macimorelin: (Major) Discontinue armodafinil and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Maraviroc: (Minor) Use caution if coadministration of maraviroc with armodafinil is necessary, due to a possible decrease in maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a CYP3A substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor for a decrease in efficacy with concomitant use.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting armodafinil therapy. Avoid initiation of armodafinil in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a reduced starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable armodafinil therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and armodafinil is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines, (e.g., dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine, amphetamine) has not been studied. In a single-dose study of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, no pharmacokinetic interactions occurred but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Methohexital: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Major) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including methylphenidate derivatives, has not been studied. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Methylphenidate: (Major) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including methylphenidate derivatives, has not been studied. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Midazolam: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Therefore, armodafinil may induce the metabolism of benzodiazepines which are substrates for CYP3A, including midazolam. Concurrent administration of armodafinil with midazolam resulted in a 32% reduction in systemic exposure of midazolam. Dosage adjustments of midazolam may be required during initiation or discontinuation of armodafinil.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Major) Armodafinil has not been evaluated for drug interactions with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). It is known that many other CNS stimulants may induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses if administered in combination with drugs with non-selective MAO inhibitor activity. Until more is known regarding the pharmacology of armodafinil, it is prudent avoid the use of armodafinil in the presence of an MAO inhibitor. Due to the prolonged duration of action of MAOIs, a period of at least 14 days between the last dose of the MAOI and the first dose of armodafinil should elapse.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with armodafinil. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as nefazodone are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Coadministration of ritonavir with armodafinil may result in elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased ritonavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4, and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Ritonavir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of P-gp. Ritonavir is also a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of armodafinil is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and armodafinil may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with armodafinil due to decreased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Norethindrone: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Norgestrel: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as fluoxetine are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In theory, dosage reductions may be required for drugs that are largely eliminated via CYP2C19 metabolism such as omeprazole during coadministration with armodafinil. A 40% increase in exposure of omeprazole was observed during coadministration with armodafinil. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized via CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Drugs that exhibit significant induction of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, such as rifabutin, may potentially increase the metabolism of armodafinil. Decreased serum levels of armodafinil could potentially result in decreased efficacy of the drug. (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In theory, dosage reductions may be required for drugs that are largely eliminated via CYP2C19 metabolism such as omeprazole during coadministration with armodafinil. A 40% increase in exposure of omeprazole was observed during coadministration with armodafinil. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In theory, dosage reductions may be required for drugs that are largely eliminated via CYP2C19 metabolism such as omeprazole during coadministration with armodafinil. A 40% increase in exposure of omeprazole was observed during coadministration with armodafinil. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PENTobarbital: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control.
Perampanel: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with armodafinil due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of armodafinil occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Armodafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Phenelzine: (Major) Armodafinil has not been evaluated for drug interactions with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). It is known that many other CNS stimulants may induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses if administered in combination with drugs with non-selective MAO inhibitor activity. Until more is known regarding the pharmacology of armodafinil, it is prudent avoid the use of armodafinil in the presence of an MAO inhibitor. Due to the prolonged duration of action of MAOIs, a period of at least 14 days between the last dose of the MAOI and the first dose of armodafinil should elapse.
PHENobarbital: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Since armodafinil is metabolized by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, and hydantoins (e.g., phenytoin, fosphenytoin) are CYP3A4 inducers. Decreased armodafinil efficacy may result from increased armodafinil metabolism. In addition, armodafinil is an inhibitor of the CYP2C19 and CYP2C9 isoenzymes. Hydantoins are substrates of CYP2C19, and phenytoin is a substrate of CYP2C9. Hydantoin concentrations may increase. Monitor carefully for signs of toxicity; phenytoin concentration monitoring may be helpful.
Primidone: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control.
Procarbazine: (Contraindicated) Armodafinil has not been evaluated for drug interactions with drugs with MAO inhibiting activity (e.g., procarbazine). Other CNS stimulants may induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses if administered in combination with drugs with MAO inhibitor activity. The manufacturer recommends caution during coadministration of armodafinil with MAO inhibitors.
Progesterone: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Progestins: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Propranolol: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In theory, dosage reductions may be required for drugs that are largely eliminated via CYP2C19 metabolism such as propranolol during coadministration with armodafinil.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized via CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Drugs that exhibit significant induction of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, such as rifabutin, may potentially increase the metabolism of armodafinil. Decreased serum levels of armodafinil could potentially result in decreased efficacy of the drug.
rifAMPin: (Major) Armodafinil is partially metabolized via CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Drugs that exhibit significant induction of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, such as rifampin, may potentially increase the metabolism of armodafinil. Decreased serum levels of armodafinil could potentially result in decreased efficacy of the drug.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering armodafinil with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions about the interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Armodafinil is an inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Ritonavir: (Major) Coadministration of ritonavir with armodafinil may result in elevated armodafinil concentrations and decreased ritonavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Armodafinil is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4, and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Ritonavir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of P-gp. Ritonavir is also a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Rivaroxaban: (Minor) Coadministration of rivaroxaban and armodafinil may result in decreased rivaroxaban exposure and may decrease the efficacy of rivaroxaban. Armodafinil is a mild inducer of CYP3A4, and rivaroxaban is a substrate of CYP3A4. If these drugs are administered concurrently, monitor the patient for signs of lack of efficacy of rivaroxaban.
Secobarbital: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A isoenzyme metabolism of estradiol, ethinyl estradiol and/or the progestins in these products. Advise patients taking these medications for contraception to discuss contraceptive options with their care team. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation. (Major) Armodafinil may cause failure of oral contraceptives or hormonal contraceptive-containing implants or devices due to induction of CYP3A4 isoenzyme metabolism of estrogens and/or the progestins in these products. Female patients of child-bearing potential should be advised to discuss contraceptive options with their health care provider to prevent unintended pregnancies. An alternative method or an additional method of contraception should be utilized during armodafinil therapy and continued for one month after armodafinil discontinuation.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Use caution during concomitant use of selegiline and armodafinil. Armodafinil has not been evaluated for drug interactions with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs); however, it is known that many other CNS stimulants may induce severe cardiovascular reactions, such as hypertensive crisis, if administered in combination with drugs with non-selective MAO inhibitor activity.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including methylphenidate derivatives, has not been studied. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of armodafinil. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of velpatasvir with armodafinil. Taking these drugs together may significantly decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate; armodafinil is an in vitro inducer of CYP3A4.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of velpatasvir with armodafinil. Taking these drugs together may significantly decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate; armodafinil is an in vitro inducer of CYP3A4.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and armodafinil, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and armodafinil; sonidegib levels may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that the sonidegib geometric mean steady-state AUC (0-24 hours) would decrease by 56% in cancer patients who received 14 days of sonidegib 200 mg/day with a moderate CYP3A inducer. Additionally, the PBPK model predicts that the sonidegib geometric mean steady-state AUC (0-24 hours) would decrease by 69% in cancer patients who received sonidegib 200 mg/day with a moderate CYP3A inducer for 4 months.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if armodafinil must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of tasimelteon and modafinil or armodafinil. Because tasimelteon is metabolized via CYP3A4 and CYP1A2, inducers of these isoenzymes, such as modafinil and armodafinil, may reduce the efficacy of tasimelteon.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Minor) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Although theophylline is only metabolized by CYP3A4 to a minor degree, caution is warranted due to the narrow therapeutic index of the drug. Theophylline concentrations should be monitored closely after the addition or discontinuation of armodafinil until a new steady-state level is achieved. (Minor) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Although theophylline/aminophylline is only metabolized by CYP3A4 to a minor degree, caution is warranted due to the narrow therapeutic index of the drug. Theophylline/aminophylline concentrations should be monitored closely after the addition or discontinuation of armodafinil until a new steady-state level is achieved.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Armodafinil has not been evaluated for drug interactions with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). It is known that many other CNS stimulants may induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses if administered in combination with drugs with non-selective MAO inhibitor activity. Until more is known regarding the pharmacology of armodafinil, it is prudent avoid the use of armodafinil in the presence of an MAO inhibitor. Due to the prolonged duration of action of MAOIs, a period of at least 14 days between the last dose of the MAOI and the first dose of armodafinil should elapse.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with armodafinil as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and armodafinil is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Minor) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including armodafinil (in vitro). Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
vinCRIStine: (Minor) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including armodafinil (in vitro). Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
Vorapaxar: (Minor) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and armodafinil. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with armodafinil, a mild inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro.
Voriconazole: (Minor) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as voriconazole are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with armodafinil is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. Armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.


Adverse Reaction
dizziness, headache, insomnia, migraine, paresthesias, tremor


During clinical trials of armodafinil in the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea, narcolepsy, and shift-work disorder, the following centrally-mediated effects occurred in more than 1% of patients receiving armodafinil and with a higher incidence than in patients treated with placebo: headache (17% vs 9%), dizziness (5% vs 2%), disturbance in attention (1% vs 0%), tremor (1% vs 0%), migraine (1% vs 0%), paresthesias (1% vs 0%), and insomnia (5% vs 1%). Headache was the most frequent cause of treatment discontinuation, occurring in 1% of patients. Dose-related CNS effects included headache and insomnia.


abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia


During clinical trials of armodafinil in the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea, narcolepsy, and shift-work disorder, the following gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred in more than 1% of patients receiving armodafinil and with a higher incidence than in patients treated with placebo: nausea (7% vs 3%), diarrhea (4% vs 2%), xerostomia (4% vs 1%), dyspepsia (2% vs 0%), upper abdominal pain (2% vs 1%), constipation (1% vs 0%), vomiting (1% vs 0%), loose stools (1% vs 0%), anorexia (1% vs 0%), and decreased appetite (1% vs 0%). Dose-related effects included nausea and xerostomia.


angioedema, bronchospasm, contact dermatitis, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), hyperhidrosis, oral ulceration, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis


Dermatologic reactions reported during clinical trial evaluation of armodafinil and more frequently than placebo included rash (unspecified) (2%), contact dermatitis (1%), and hyperhidrosis (1%). Rash was a dose-related effect. Serious rashes requiring hospitalization and discontinuation of treatment have been reported in adult and pediatric patients receiving armodafinil as well as modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil. Allergic reactions, including angioedema, hypersensitivity with rash, dysphagia, and bronchospasm, and rashes with skin and mouth sores, blistering, and oral ulceration have been observed during use of modafinil and armodafinil, including some cases of recurring signs and symptoms of serious dermatologic reactions upon re-challenge. Life-threatening rashes, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) have occurred in association with armodafinil and modafinil in children and adults. During postmarketing use, a fatal case of DRESS occurred 3 weeks after the initiation of armodafinil. Similarly, multi-organ hypersensitivity reactions, including at least 1 fatality, have occurred between 4 and 33 days of initiating treatment with modafinil (median time to detection of 13 days). Manifestations of DRESS typically include pyrexia, rash, facial swelling, and/or lymph node involvement in conjunction with other organ system abnormalities including hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Eosinophilia is often present. Early manifestations of DRESS such as pyrexia and lymph node involvement may be present without evidence of a rash. Although most cases of serious rash associated with armodafinil or modafinil have occurred relatively early during treatment, prolonged administration should not preclude the possibility of an association to the drugs. There are currently no known factors, including duration of therapy, to predict the risk of occurrence or severity of an armodafinil-related rash. In cases where the time to onset was reported, serious rash primarily occurred 1 day to 2 months from the start of treatment; however, there have been isolated cases of serious dermatologic reactions where symptoms began 3 months after treatment initiation. The drug should be discontinued at the first sign of a rash, skin or mouth sores, blistering, or ulceration at any time during treatment if an association to the drug is suspected or confirmed. It should be noted that discontinuation of treatment may not prevent a rash from becoming life-threatening or permanently disabling or disfiguring. Although there are no case reports indicating cross-sensitivity with other drugs that produce multi-organ hypersensitivity reactions, clinical experience with drugs associated with this type of hypersensitivity would indicate this to be a possibility.


elevated hepatic enzymes, pancytopenia


Laboratory changes reported during clinical trials with armodafinil include increased gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT, 1%) and alkaline phosphatase. Some elevations were outside the normal range, although the incidence is unknown. One case of pancytopenia occurred after 35 days of treatment, and resolved with drug discontinuation. Laboratory values that were unaffected during clinical trials included total protein, albumin, and total bilirubin. Rare instances of elevated hepatic enzymes, e.g., alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) were observed.


agitation, anxiety, depression, hallucinations, mania, restlessness, suicidal ideation


During clinical trials of armodafinil in the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea, narcolepsy, and shift-work disorder, the following psychiatric effects occurred in more than 1% of patients receiving armodafinil and with a higher incidence than in patients treated with placebo: anxiety (4% vs. 1%), depression (2% vs. 0%), agitation (1% vs. 0%), nervousness/restlessness (1% vs. 0%), and depressed mood (1% vs. 0%). Depression was a dose-related adverse event. More patients receiving armodafinil than placebo discontinued treatment due to anxiety, agitation, nervousness, and irritability (1.2% vs. 0.3%). Armodafinil-treated patients also discontinued treatment more often than patients receiving placebo due to depression (0.6% vs. 0.2%). Cases of suicidal ideation were also observed during clinical trials. Mania, aggression, delusions, hallucinations, depression, and suicidal ideation have been reported during post-marketing use of armodafinil; some of these events have required hospitalization. The total daily doses ranged from 50 mg to 450 mg. Most of the patients had a prior psychiatric history. If psychiatric symptoms develop during treatment with armodafinil, consider discontinuation of treatment.


fatigue, fever, influenza


During clinical trials of armodafinil in the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea, narcolepsy, and shift-work disorder, the following general effects occurred in more than 1% of patients receiving armodafinil and with a higher incidence than in patients treated with placebo: fatigue (2% vs 1%), thirst (1% vs 0%), influenza (influenza-like illness 1% vs 0%), pain (1% vs 0%), fever (1% vs 0%), and seasonal allergy (1% vs 0%).


polyuria


During clinical trials of armodafinil in the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea, narcolepsy, and shift-work disorder, polyuria occurred in 1% of patients receiving armodafinil and with a higher incidence than in patients treated with placebo (0%).


dyspnea


During clinical trials of armodafinil in the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea, narcolepsy, and shift-work disorder, dyspnea occurred in 1% of patients receiving armodafinil and with a higher incidence than in patients treated with placebo (0%).


hypertension, palpitations


During clinical trials of armodafinil in the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea, narcolepsy, and shift-work disorder, palpitations occurred in more than 1% of patients receiving armodafinil and with a higher incidence than in patients treated with placebo (2% vs 1%). A small increase in blood pressure (1.2—4.3 mmHg) occurred in some patients during clinical trials with armodafinil. More patients receiving armodafinil required a new antihypertensive or change in their current antihypertensive regimen compared to those receiving placebo (2.9% vs 1.8%) to treat hypertension. It is advisable to evaluate blood pressure periodically in patients with hypertension. An average increase in heart rate of 0.9—3.5 beats/minute was also observed in clinical trials.


physiological dependence, psychological dependence, tolerance, withdrawal


Psychological dependence, physiological dependence, and tolerance may occur with armodafinil therapy. Abrupt discontinuation or a significant dose reduction of CNS stimulants after prolonged use may produce withdrawal symptoms that include dysphoria, depression, fatigue, vivid and unpleasant dreams, insomnia or hypersomnia, increased appetite, and psychomotor retardation or agitation. Consider monitoring for withdrawal symptoms after significant dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy after prolonged use.


Description

Armodafinil is a psychostimulant and the R-enantiomer of the racemic compound modafinil. Safety and effectiveness of the drug were based on positive results of double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled studies in patients with excessive sleepiness associated with narcolepsy, shift-work sleep disorder (SWSD), and obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome (OSA/HS). The clinical trial data suggest that patients treated with armodafinil had a significant improvement in the primary endpoints including objective sleep latency and the physician rating of Clinical Global Impression-Change. The trials also showed that armodafinil promotes wakefulness later in the day without impairing sleep, thus establishing that it has a long duration of action. The Veteran's Affairs/Department of Defense (VA/DoD) guidelines for treatment of obstructive sleep apnea suggest armodafinil for treating residual excessive daytime sleepiness in adults who are otherwise optimally treated with first-line therapy options. Armodafinil (Nuvigil) received FDA approval in June 2007 for excessive sleepiness associated with narcolepsy and shift-work sleep disorder, and as an adjunct to standard treatment for OSA/HS.

Mechanism Of Action

Armodafinil is the R-enantiomer of the racemic compound modafinil. The exact mechanism of action is not fully known; however, the enantiomers of modafinil (e.g., armodafinil) have similar pharmacologic profiles. Data obtained from modafinil suggest that the primary sites of activity are in the subregions of the hippocampus, the centrolateral nucleus of the thalamus, and the central nucleus of the amygdala. In vitro and nonclinical animal studies suggest that armodafinil does not bind to or inhibit most of the enzymes, hormones, or neurotransmitters/receptors thought to be involved in sleep-wake cycles including adenosine, benzodiazepines, catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), cortisol, galanin, gamma-butyric amino acid (GABA), GABA transaminase, growth hormone, histamine, melanocortin, melatonin, norepinephrine, orphanin, orexin-1, phosphodiesterase VI, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), serotonin, or tyrosine hydroxylase. The related compound modafinil does not inhibit monoamine oxidase B, or phosphodiesterases II—IV. Armodafinil is not a dopamine receptor agonist; however, in vitro data indicate that the drug binds to the dopamine transporter (DAT) and inhibits dopamine reuptake. It is important to note that the wake-promoting effects of modafinil are not diminished by the administration of dopamine receptor antagonists, nor does the dopamine synthesis inhibitor alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine block its locomotor activity in animal models. Modafinil-induced wakefulness can be attenuated by the alpha-1 adrenergic antagonist, prazosin, which initially led to the conclusion that modafinil stimulates the central alpha-1 adrenergic system. However, in vitro assay systems responsive to alpha-adrenergic stimulation have not shown that modafinil is a direct or indirect alpha-1 adrenergic agonist. In addition to wake-promoting actions, other pharmacologic effects of armodafinil may include euphoria, as well as alterations in mood, perception, thinking, and feelings similar to those which occur with other CNS stimulants. Drug seeking behavior occurred in monkeys receiving modafinil who were previously trained to self-administer cocaine. Therefore, it is possible that armodafinil may potentially lead to habitual psychological dependence in some individuals.

Pharmacokinetics

Armodafinil is administered orally. The protein binding characteristics are unknown. The elimination half-life is roughly 15 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP3A4/5, CYP2C19, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inducer of CYP1A2 and CYP3A4/5, and a reversible inhibitor of CYP2C19. The major route of elimination is liver metabolism, occurring via hydrolytic deamination, S-oxidation, hydroxylation, and glucuronide conjugation; in vitro data indicate that it is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Sulfone formation occurs via the CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Only two metabolites are present in the plasma in significant concentrations (i.e., R-modafinil acid and modafinil sulfone). Neither appear to have pharmacologic activity.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Absorption of armodafinil occurs rapidly after oral administration; peak plasma concentrations occur in 2 hours when administered without food. When administered with food, Tmax is delayed by about 2—4 hours.

Hepatic Impairment

Data for armodafinil in special populations are not available; however, pharmacokinetic parameters are expected to be similar to modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil. Patients with hepatic impairment exhibit reduced modafinil clearance; significant reductions in hepatic clearance result in a doubling of modafinil serum concentrations compared to normal subjects. The manufacturer of armodafinil recommends dosage reductions in the presence of severe hepatic impairment, although does not give specific guidelines.

Renal Impairment

Data for armodafinil in special populations are not available; however, pharmacokinetic parameters are expected to be similar to modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil. Renal failure (CrCl <= 20 mL/min) does not influence the pharmacokinetics of modafinil but does cause the accumulation of the inactive metabolite, modafinil acid.

Geriatric

In one small study, systemic exposure of armodafinil was approximately 15% higher in elderly subjects 65 years of age and older, corresponding to an approximate 12% lower oral clearance versus adult subjects 18—45 years of age. Systemic exposure of the armodafinil acid metabolite in elderly subjects was about 61% and 73% greater for Cmax and AUC, respectively, compared to younger adults. Systemic exposure of the sulfone metabolite was approximately 20% lower for elderly subjects than young subjects. A subgroup analysis demonstrated that elderly subjects 65—74 years of age and 75 years of age and older had approximately 9% and 21% lower oral clearance, respectively, compared to young adults. Systemic exposure was about 10% higher in subjects 65—74 years of age and 27% greater in subjects 75 years of age and older compared to young subjects. Generally, these differences are not likely to be clinically significant; however, consideration should be given to the use of lower doses in the elderly.

Gender Differences

It appears there are no gender differences with regard to the pharmacokinetics of the armodafinil.

Ethnic Differences

The influence of race on the pharmacokinetics of armodafinil has not been studied.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
A MedGuide that provides information about the proper use and risks of armodafinil should be dispensed with each new prescription and refill.

Oral Administration

•Administer in the morning to get maximal effects during waking hours and to avoid possible interference with nocturnal sleep.
•May be given without regard to meals. The presence of food will delay maximum peak concentrations by approximately 2—4 hours; however, effects on overall bioavailability are minimal.

Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

250 mg/day PO for narcolepsy and OSA/HS; 150 mg/day PO for circadian rhythm disruption.

Geriatric

250 mg/day PO for narcolepsy and OSA/HS; 150 mg/day PO for circadian rhythm disruption.

Adolescents

>= 17 years: 250 mg/day PO for narcolepsy and OSA/HS; 150 mg/day PO for circadian rhythm disruption.
< 17 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safe and effective use has not been established.

Dosage Forms

Armodafinil 150mg Oral tablet

Armodafinil 200mg Oral tablet

Armodafinil 250mg Oral tablet

Armodafinil 50mg Oral tablet

Nuvigil 150mg Tablet

NUVIGIL 150mg Tablet

NUVIGIL 150mg Tablet

NUVIGIL 200mg Tablet

NUVIGIL 200mg Tablet

NUVIGIL 250mg Tablet

NUVIGIL 250mg Tablet

NUVIGIL 50mg Tablet

NUVIGIL 50mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for quantitative dosage reductions are not available; however, the manufacturer recommends that the dose of armodafinil be reduced in the presence of severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available. The safety of armodafinil in patients with severe renal impairment is unknown. Exposure to the inactive metabolite modafinil acid was increased 9-fold in patients with chronic renal failure (creatinine clearance <= 20 mL/min) receiving modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil. The clinical significance is unknown.

© 2026 Elsevier