=== Ergotamine/Caffeine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 937)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ergotamine; caffeine is a combination of an ergot alkaloid with caffeine indicated for the treatment of acute migraine.

Routes: oral, rectal; Common adult doses: 6 tablets/24 hours or per attack PO and not to exceed 10 tablets/week PO; or 2 suppositories/24 hours or per attack PR and not to exceed 5 suppositories/week PR.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bowel ischemia, colitis, bradycardia, cyanosis, hypertension, musculoskeletal pain, peripheral vasoconstriction, sinus tachycardia, paresthesias, vertigo, weakness, cardiac valvulopathy, pulmonary fibrosis, retroperitoneal fibrosis, medication overuse headache, physiological dependence, withdrawal, fetal death, spontaneous fetal abortion, uterine contractions

In an Overdose: While most cases of ergotism associated with ergotamine treatment result from overdosage, some cases have involved apparent hypersensitivity.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Caffeine; ergotamine is contraindicated in patients with known ergot alkaloid hypersensitivity because they may develop an allergic or otherwise serious adverse reaction. Patients should be advised not to exceed the recommended dosage of ergotamine during use.

Brand Names
  - Cafergot
  - Migergot

Dosage Forms
  - Cafergot 1mg-100mg Tablet
  - Cafergot 1mg-100mg Tablet
  - Ergotamine Tartrate 1mg, Caffeine 100mg Oral tablet
  - Migergot 100mg-2mg Rectal Suppository

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (tablets containing 1 mg of ergotamine and 100 mg of caffeine)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg ergotamine/200 mg caffeine PO at the start of attack, followed by 1 mg ergotamine/100 mg caffeine PO every 30 minutes if needed for full relief. Max: 6 mg/attack ergotamine; 600 mg/attack caffeine and 10 mg/week ergotamine; 1,000 mg/week caffeine. Guidelines classify oral ergotamine; caffeine as having probable efficacy for the treatment of acute migraine.
      Heading
      Rectal dosage (suppositories containing 2 mg of ergotamine and 100 mg of caffeine)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg ergotamine/100 mg caffeine PR at the start of attack, followed by 2 mg ergotamine/100 mg caffeine PR 1 hour later if needed for full relief. Max: 4 mg/attack ergotamine; 200 mg/attack caffeine and 10 mg/week ergotamine; 500 mg/week caffeine.
    Heading
    For the acute treatment of migraine

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Caffeine; ergotamine is contraindicated in patients with known ergot alkaloid hypersensitivity because they may develop an allergic or otherwise serious adverse reaction. Patients should be advised not to exceed the recommended dosage of ergotamine during use. Patients should report any of the following symptoms: abdominal pain, anxiety, chest pain, myalgia, severe nausea and vomiting, numbness, tingling, or vision changes. If signs and symptoms of impaired circulation occur, the medication should be discontinued, and affected extremities should be kept warm.
 
Caffeine; ergotamine use should be avoided in basilar/hemiplegic migraine because safety and efficacy have not been established. Treatment for migraine-induced stroke has not been formally evaluated and ergot alkaloids for abortive therapy of the migraine should be avoided because they may further reduce cerebral blood flow to the ischemic area. Caffeine; ergotamine is not recommended for migraine prophylaxis.
 
Caffeine; ergotamine is contraindicated in peripheral vascular disease (including thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger's disease), luetic arteritis, severe arteriosclerosis, thrombophlebitis, and Raynaud's disease), coronary artery disease (including unstable or vasospastic angina, or predisposition to vasospastic reactions), sepsis or uncontrolled hypertension. It is recommended that ergotamine not be given to patients with a history of myocardial infarction or in whom unrecognized coronary artery disease (CAD) is predicted by the presence of cardiac disease risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, current tobacco smoking, obesity, diabetes mellitus, strong family history of CAD, postmenopausal females, or males over 40 years of age), unless a cardiovascular evaluation provides sufficient evidence that the patient is reasonably free of ischemic heart disease. The elderly may be more susceptible to vasoconstrictive effects of ergot alkaloids. In general, dosing should be more cautious in the elderly, starting at the lower end of the dose range to account for differences in renal, hepatic, or cardiac systems as well as concomitant disease states and medications. Coadministration of ergotamine with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 is contraindicated due to the risk of acute ergot toxicity (see Drug Interactions). Serious and/or life-threatening peripheral ischemia has been associated with the coadministration of ergotamine with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors including protease inhibitors and macrolide antibiotics, with some cases resulting in limb amputation. Cerebral ischemia has occurred rarely in patients taking ergotamine with protease inhibitors (one case fatal). Because CYP3A4 inhibition elevates serum ergotamine concentrations, the risk for vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities is increased.
 
Ergotamine is extensively metabolized in the liver and excreted in the bile. Hepatic impairment is considered a contraindication to caffeine; ergotamine use by the manufacturer. Those with hepatic disease may be at increased risk for developing ergot toxicity due to systemic accumulation of the drug. Use in severe pruritis (i.e., biliary tract disease or cholestasis) should be avoided.
 
Renal impairment, including renal failure, is considered a contraindication to caffeine; ergotamine use by the manufacturer. Patients with severe renal impairment who receive ergotamine may develop symptoms of ergot poisoning because of impaired elimination. Use with caution in any patient with renal disease due to the vasoconstrictive effects of the drug.
 
Caffeine; ergotamine should be used with caution in children, including adolescents. Safe and effective use has not been established. While older children have been treated for severe migraine headaches with ergotamine, limited clinical data reveal a poor efficacy rate. Use in older children should be reserved for cases where less toxic medications have failed to provide relief. Do not give ergotamine to young children or infants.
 
Caffeine; ergotamine is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category X. Animal studies indicate that ergotamine inhibits fetal growth, and increases intrauterine deaths and resorption. Although teratogenic effects in humans have not been reported, ergotamine and other ergot alkaloids should not be administered during pregnancy because the oxytocic and uterine stimulant properties of this drug class will likely cause harm to the fetus.
 
Caffeine; ergotamine should not be used during breast-feeding. Caffeine; ergotamine is excreted into breast milk and may cause vomiting, diarrhea, weak pulse, and unstable blood pressure in nursing infants. Ergot drugs are also known to interfere with lactation by inhibiting prolactin concentrations.
 
Long-term use of ergot alkaloids such as ergotamine has been associated with abnormal heart valve findings including aortic and/or mitral regurgitation, mitral stenosis, severe tricuspid regurgitation, and pulmonary regurgitation. Chronic use of ergotamine preparations has caused fibrotic thickening of the aortic, mitral, tricuspid, and/or pulmonary valves. Retroperitoneal fibrosis and pulmonary fibrosis have occurred in rare instances. Caffeine; ergotamine preparations should be used cautiously in those with pulmonary disease or valvular heart disease.
 
Because ergotamine may cause vasoconstriction, patients should be advised to inform their health care provider of caffeine; ergotamine usage prior to any surgeries or related procedures. Ergotamine may cause problems with plastic, cosmetic, or reconstructive surgery in particular; cyanosis, ischemia and vasoconstriction in the skin or other tissues may occur if ergotamine has been ingested within 48 hours of the surgical procedure.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Ergotamine; caffeine tablets may contain FD and C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine), which may cause allergic-type reactions, including bronchial asthma, in certain susceptible individuals; FD and C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) sensitivity is frequently seen in individuals who also have aspirin hypersensitivity.
    Headline
    coadministration with certain medications, coronary artery disease, hypertension, peripheral vascular disease, sepsis
    General Information
    Ergotamine; caffeine is contraindicated with coadministration with certain medications, specifically strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, due to the risk for ergotism and other serious vasospastic adverse events. Coadministration of ergotamine with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., protease inhibitors, macrolides) has been associated with increased exposure to ergotamine and acute ergot toxicity (ergotism) characterized by vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities, with some cases resulting in amputation. There have been rare reports of cerebral ischemia in individuals on protease inhibitor therapy when ergotamine was coadministered, at least a single case resulting in death. Ergotamine is also contraindicated in individuals with peripheral vascular disease, coronary artery disease, hypertension, and sepsis.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Ergotamine; caffeine is contraindicated in individuals with hepatic impairment or hepatic failure.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Ergotamine; caffeine is contraindicated in individuals with renal impairment or renal failure.
    Headline
    labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy
    General Information
    Ergotamine; caffeine is contraindicated during pregnancy, including during labor and obstetric delivery, due to its oxytocic effect, which is maximal in the third trimester. Ergotamine crosses the placenta in small amounts, but does not appear to be embryo-toxic in this quantity. However, prolonged vasoconstriction of uterine vessels and increased myometrial tone may contribute to the fetal growth restriction seen in animal models. Caffeine crosses the placenta. Animal studies suggest teratogenicity, with a small increase in fetal cleft palate and exencephaly after exposure during organogenesis. Although ergotamine is not an established human teratogen, limited data indicate that in utero exposure to ergotamine during pregnancy may be associated with fetal malformations consistent with ischemic injury. The possibility of teratogenic potential in humans cannot be ruled out, particularly during prolonged administration or use of high doses.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Ergotamine; caffeine is contraindicated in people who may become pregnant. Counsel individuals about the reproductive risk associated with caffeine; ergotamine. Caffeine; ergotamine may cause fetal harm.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Counsel patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking ergotamine; caffeine due to the potential for adverse reactions in the breastfed child. Ergotamine is present in human milk and may cause symptoms of vomiting, diarrhea, weak pulse, and unstable blood pressure in a breastfed child. In addition, ergot derivatives inhibit prolactin and have the potential to decrease milk production. Alternative treatments for migraine, such as sumatriptan, are preferred.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Ergotamine; caffeine is contraindicated during pregnancy, including during labor and obstetric delivery, due to its oxytocic effect, which is maximal in the third trimester. Ergotamine crosses the placenta in small amounts, but does not appear to be embryo-toxic in this quantity. However, prolonged vasoconstriction of uterine vessels and increased myometrial tone may contribute to the fetal growth restriction seen in animal models. Caffeine crosses the placenta. Animal studies suggest teratogenicity, with a small increase in fetal cleft palate and exencephaly after exposure during organogenesis. Although ergotamine is not an established human teratogen, limited data indicate that in utero exposure to ergotamine during pregnancy may be associated with fetal malformations consistent with ischemic injury. The possibility of teratogenic potential in humans cannot be ruled out, particularly during prolonged administration or use of high doses.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of acyclovir is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and acyclovir is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with adagrasib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Adenosine: (Major) Larger doses of adenosine may be required or adenosine may not be effective in the presence of methylxanthines. The effects of adenosine are antagonized by methylxanthines. When used for diagnostic purposes, instruct patients to avoid consumption of methylxanthine-containing products, including caffeinated beverages, for at least 5 half-lives prior to the imaging study.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Allopurinol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of allopurinol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and allopurinol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Almotriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
ALPRAZolam: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Amantadine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of amiodarone is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and amiodarone is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and amiodarone. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and amiodarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with clarithromycin is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Amphetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Amphetamines: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects.
Angiotensin II: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and aprepitant/fosaprepitant. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Major) Methylxanthines, through antagonism of adenosine and thus pharmacologic-induced coronary vasodilation, have been associated with false-negative results during dipyridamole-thallium 201 stress testing. It is recommended that methylxanthines (caffeine, caffeinated beverages and foods, theophylline, etc.) be discontinued for at least 24 hours prior to stress testing. An interaction is not expected when methylxanthines are used concomitantly with chronic dipyridamole therapy. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with atazanavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with atazanavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and avacopan. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Benzodiazepines: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and methylene blue. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Benzphetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and berotralstat. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Beta-agonists: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and lenacapavir. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bromocriptine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and bromocriptine, an ergotamine derivative, within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Certain foods that contain high amounts of caffeine or theobromine should be limited during the therapeutic use of caffeine in order to limit additive methylxanthine effects. While taking Caffeine-containing medicines, limit the use of foods, beverages (examples: coffee, tea, colas), herbs (examples: guarana, green tea) and other products that contain additional caffeine, such as chocolate and some non-prescription medications or dietary supplements for headache, insomnia, or weight loss. Too much Caffeine can cause effects like nausea, nervousness, or sleeplessness. Some drug products for adults that contain caffeine have about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Moderate) Caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously with oxybates. Monitor for potential side effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Consider a dose reduction of caffeine as clinically appropriate, if adverse reactions occur when administered with cannabidiol. Increased caffeine exposure is possible. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and cannabidiol is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
carBAMazepine: (Minor) Carbamazepine may induce caffeine metabolism via induction of the hepatic CYP1A2 isoenzyme.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ceritinib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with chloramphenicol is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Cimetidine: (Minor) Inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as cimetidine, may inhibit the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine. In patients who complain of caffeine-related side effects caffeine dosage or intake may need to be reduced.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and ciprofloxacin. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Reduction or limitation of the caffeine dosage in medications and limitation of caffeine in beverages and food may be necessary during concurrent ciprofloxacin therapy. Ciprofloxacin can decrease the clearance of caffeine. Caffeine toxicity may occur and can manifest as nausea, vomiting, anxiety, tachycardia, or seizures. Ciprofloxacin is a CYP1A2 inhibitor and caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and citalopram. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with clarithromycin is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
clonazePAM: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Clorazepate: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
cloZAPine: (Major) Caffeine may inhibit clozapine metabolism via CYP1A2. Clozapine clearance has been decreased by roughly 14 percent during coadministration of caffeine, and a documented increase in clozapine serum concentrations has occurred in selected patients. In addition, a single case report associates the appearance of psychiatric symptoms with caffeine ingestion in one patient taking clozapine. Until more data are available, caffeine consumption should be minimized during clozapine treatment.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cocaine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cocaine is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and conivaptan. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and crizotinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and cyclosporine. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darifenacin: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with darunavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with darunavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with darunavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Dextroamphetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
diazePAM: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of diazoxide is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and diazoxide is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and diltiazem. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dipyridamole: (Major) Methylxanthines, through antagonism of adenosine and thus pharmacologic-induced coronary vasodilation, have been associated with false-negative results during dipyridamole-thallium 201 stress testing. It is recommended that methylxanthines (caffeine, caffeinated beverages and foods, theophylline, etc.) be discontinued for at least 24 hours prior to stress testing. An interaction is not expected when methylxanthines are used concomitantly with chronic dipyridamole therapy.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
DOPamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants, like doxapram. CNS stimulants and sympathomimetics are associated with adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias, and the concomitant use of these drugs increases the risk of developing such adverse reactions. Coadminsitration should be avoided or used cautiously.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and dronedarone. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Droxidopa: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and duvelisib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Echinacea: (Moderate) Echinacea may inhibit the metabolism of caffeine. Echinacea reduces the oral clearance of caffeine by 27 percent and increases the mean AUC by 129 percent. Monitor patients for signs of increased caffeine serum concentrations if these drugs are coadministered until more data are available.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Eletriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of enasidenib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and enasidenib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
ePHEDrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like ephedrine. Adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with ephedrine. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like ephedrine. Adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with ephedrine. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects.
EPINEPHrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Inhibitors of the hepatic CYP4501A2, such as erythromycin, may inhibit the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine. No specific management is recommended except in patients who complain of caffeine related side effects. In such patients, the dosage of caffeine containing medications or the ingestion of caffeine containing products may need to be reduced. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and erythromycin. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and escitalopram. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Estazolam: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Esterified Estrogens: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estrogens (selected): (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Eszopiclone: (Minor) Patients taking eszopiclone for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime, as well as excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep. Limit use of caffeine-containing products including medications, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), and beverages (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, or colas).
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and fedratinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fesoterodine: (Minor) Beverages containing caffeine or ethanol may aggravate bladder symptoms and counteract the effectiveness of fesoterodine to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas) and alcoholic beverages.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Fluconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 25 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and fluconazole. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and fluoxetine. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Flurazepam: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, serotonin syndrome, and symptoms of serotonin excess, such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination, during concomitant use of ergotamine and fluvoxamine. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure and both medications enhance serotonergic activity. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Strong inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine, may inhibit the metabolism of caffeine. No specific management is recommended except in patients with caffeine-related side effects after initiating fluvoxamine. In such patients, the dosage of caffeine containing medications or the ingestion of caffeine containing products may need to be reduced.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and fosamprenavir. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Higher caffeine doses may be needed after hydantoin administration; hydantoins increase caffeine elimination.
Frovatriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Givosiran: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of givosiran and caffeine due to the risk of increased caffeine-related adverse reactions. If use is necessary, consider decreasing the caffeine dose. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. Givosiran may moderately reduce hepatic CYP1A2 enzyme activity because of its pharmacological effects on the hepatic heme biosynthesis pathway.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during ergotamine treatment due to the risk for increased ergotamine exposure and adverse reactions. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Higher caffeine doses may be needed after hydantoin administration; hydantoins increase caffeine elimination.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and methylene blue. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with idelalisib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and imatinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Iodixanol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iohexol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iopromide: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ioversol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and isavuconazonium. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isocarboxazid: (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive.
Isoproterenol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with isoproterenol is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with itraconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ketoconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Ketoprofen: (Minor) Caffeine administered concurrently with ketoprofen reduced the urine volume in 4 healthy volunteers. The clinical significance of the interaction in preterm neonates is not known.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with clarithromycin is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and lefamulin. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and lenacapavir. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with letermovir is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure and the risk for adverse effects. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ketoconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Caffeine use should be minimized or avoided during and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of linezolid. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Dangerous cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension can occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs. (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and linezolid. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of lisdexamfetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Lithium: (Major) Caffeine appears to reduce serum lithium concentrations. Adverse reactions to lithium have also been noted to increase simultaneously with a reduction in caffeine intake. Patients taking lithium should be counseled regarding their intake of caffeine.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with lonafarnib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ritonavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
LORazepam: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Melatonin: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking melatonin for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime, as well as excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Metaproterenol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Methamphetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and methylene blue. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Methylene Blue: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and methylene blue. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Mexiletine is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 isoenzymes, and may reduce CYP1A2-mediated caffeine metabolism. Mexiletine has been shown to increase caffeine concentrations by as much as 23 percent after a single 200 mg dose of mexiletine (nonsignificant increase, p 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Beverages containing caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urine output, and counteract the effectiveness of solifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements, or beverages.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Inducers of CYP1A2, such as St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum, may induce the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of caffeine when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of caffeine resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP1A2 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
SUMAtriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Suvorexant: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Tasimelteon: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking melatonin or the melatonin analogs (ramelteon, tasimelteon) for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Temazepam: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Terbutaline: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Teriflunomide: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of caffeine during coadministration of teriflunomide. Teriflunomide may be a weak inducer of CYP1A2. When teriflunomide was given concurrently with caffeine in vivo, a CYP1A2 substrate, the Cmax and AUC of caffeine decreased by 18% and 55%, respectively.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Major) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant. The concurrent administration of caffeine to patients taking aminophylline may produce excessive caffeine-like side effects, such as nausea, irritability or nervousness. Adverse effects such as tremors, insomnia, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently. Patients should avoid medications containing caffeine when possible. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects. (Major) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant. The concurrent administration of caffeine to patients taking theophylline may produce excessive caffeine-like side effects, such as nausea, irritability or nervousness. Adverse effects such as tremors, insomnia, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with theophylline. Patients taking theophylline should avoid medications containing caffeine when possible. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects. In neonates, theophylline is metabolized to caffeine; initiating caffeine after theophylline therapy is halted may result in caffeine toxicity in neonates if serum caffeine levels are not monitored prior to the initiation of caffeine therapy. Concurrent use of theophylline with caffeine in neonates is not recommended due to the potential for additive toxicity.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with tipranavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Tobacco: (Major) Advise patients to avoid smoking tobacco while taking ergot alkaloids. Concurrent use of vasoconstrictors, such as nicotine, with ergot alkaloids may result in enhanced vasoconstriction. Nicotine acts indirectly as a sympathomimetic agent by releasing catecholamines, potentially resulting in effects such as hypertension, coronary spasm, coronary ischemia, or cardiac arrhythmias, which may be additive with ergot alkaloids. (Major) Advise patients who are taking caffeine to avoid smoking tobacco. Smoking tobacco has been observed to increase caffeine clearance by 50% to 70%. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and smoking tobacco induces CYP1A2.
Tolterodine: (Minor) Beverages containing caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms and counteract the effectiveness of tolterodine to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements, or beverages.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and verapamil. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Verapamil reduces the clearance of caffeine and increases serum caffeine concentrations, presumably via inhibition of hepatic metabolism. During concomitant therapy with verapamil, it may be prudent to advise patients to limit or minimize the intake of caffeinated products to minimize caffeine-related side effects.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive.
Triazolam: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with tucatinib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Vasopressors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and verapamil. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Verapamil reduces the clearance of caffeine and increases serum caffeine concentrations, presumably via inhibition of hepatic metabolism. During concomitant therapy with verapamil, it may be prudent to advise patients to limit or minimize the intake of caffeinated products to minimize caffeine-related side effects.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and vilazodone. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with clarithromycin is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with voriconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and vortioxetine. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Zaleplon: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as zaleplon should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Zileuton: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of zileuton is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and zileuton is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
ZOLMitriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Zolpidem: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages within the hours close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep. However, in healthy subjects (without insomnia) in a pharmacokinetic study, coadministration of caffeine at a dosage of 150 to 300 mg with zolpidem did not counteract the sedative effects of a single 10 mg dose of zolpidem.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Nausea/vomiting are common gastrointestinal complaints, occurring in up to 10% of patients receiving caffeine; ergotamine. This reaction is the result of the potent emetic properties of ergotamine, which originate in the chemoreceptor trigger zone (CTZ). The frequency and/or severity of this adverse reaction may be reduced by the concomitant administration of an antiemetic agent with caffeine; ergotamine combinations. Other gastrointestinal side effects include diarrhea, xerostomia, and rarely, pancreatitis or ischemic colitis.It is important to note that effects related to the vasoconstrictive properties of ergotamine may occur at therapeutic doses including abdominal pain, myalgia, paresthesias (numbness and tingling), and weakness in the extremities. Precordial pain, transient changes in heart rate, pruritus and localized edema may also occur, particularly in those sensitive to the drug. These reactions may also occur as part of the symptomatology of ergotamine toxicity. Prolonged administration or excessive dosages of ergotamine may result in ergotamine toxicity. While ergot-toxicity has occurred in patients taking less than 5 mg of ergotamine, toxicity is more likely to occur in those patients taking more than 15 mg/24 hours or 40 mg within a few days (manufacturers information). Symptoms of ergotism include angina, asthenia, chest pain (unspecified), coronary vasospasm, muscle cramps (claudication), myalgia, and palpitations or changes in heart rate (e.g., sinus bradycardia or sinus tachycardia). Peripheral vasoconstriction of the arteries may result in hypothermia or tissue necrosis, which may lead to gangrene. Other serious complications include hypertension (portal), mesenteric artery thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and renal tubular necrosis. Symptoms such as confusion, depression, drowsiness, and seizures rarely occur. Overuse of the suppository formulation of the drug may cause the above symptoms as well as rectal or anal ulcerations. Patients should report any of the described symptoms promptly to their prescriber and the drug should be discontinued.The caffeine component of caffeine; ergotamine combinations is a CNS stimulant. At therapeutic or nontoxic doses, caffeine can cause heightened attentiveness, sinus tachycardia, and tremor. Caffeine is also a mild diuretic. Polyuria can occur.Drug dependence may occur in some individuals after prolonged use of ergotamine. Withdrawal symptoms such as dysphoria and/or rebound headaches have been reported following abrupt discontinuation of the drug. Patients should be monitored for possible physiological dependence and/or withdrawal while receiving caffeine; ergotamine combinations. In addition, a caffeine withdrawal syndrome has been described in patients who have consumed or received caffeine daily for several weeks. Withdrawal symptoms include notable physical and psychiatric responses such as anxiety, dizziness, headache, or lethargy.Excessive dosing or prolonged administration of ergotamine may inhibit lactation. This effect is related to ergotamine's suppression of prolactin.Although specific effects of ergotamine are not attributable to teratogenesis, it is known that the drug may induce fetal harm. Retarded fetal growth and an increase in intrauterine fetal death, including fetal abortion, have been seen in animals. Ergotamine stimulates uterine contractions and is a potent vasoconstrictor of the placental vascular bed.Long-term use of ergot alkaloids such as ergotamine has been associated with the development of cardiac valvulopathy. Such effects have included aortic and/or mitral regurgitation, mitral stenosis, severe tricuspid regurgitation, and pulmonary regurgitation. Chronic use of ergotamine preparations has caused fibrotic thickening of the aortic, mitral, tricuspid, and/or pulmonary valves. Retroperitoneal fibrosis and pulmonary fibrosis have occurred in rare instances.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, bowel ischemia, colitis, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea and vomiting are relatively common gastrointestinal (GI) complaints in patients receiving ergotamine; caffeine. Nausea/vomiting is the result of the potent emetic properties of ergotamine, which originate in the chemoreceptor trigger zone. The frequency and/or severity of nausea/vomiting may be reduced by the concomitant administration of an antiemetic agent with caffeine; ergotamine. Diarrhea may also be a reported GI side effect. Other potential serious complications include severe abdominal pain with mesenteric ischemia. Ischemic colitis (bowel ischemia) due to ergot alkaloid-induced vasospasm has also been reported. Overuse of the suppository formulation may cause rectal or anal ulcerations and rectal stenosis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bowel ischemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    bradycardia, cyanosis, hypertension, musculoskeletal pain, peripheral vasoconstriction, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Vasoconstrictive complications of a serious nature may occur with ergotamine at times. These include ischemia, cyanosis, absence of pulse, cold extremities, gangrene, precordial distress and pain, ECG changes, and musculoskeletal pain. Although these effects occur most commonly with long-term therapy at relatively high doses, they have also been reported with short-term or normal doses. Ergotism is manifested by intense arterial vasoconstriction, producing signs and symptoms of peripheral vasoconstriction. In chronic intoxication with ergot derivatives, headache, intermittent claudication, muscle pains, numbness, coldness and pallor of the digits may occur. If the condition is allowed to progress untreated, gangrene can result. While most cases of ergotism associated with ergotamine treatment result from overdosage, some cases have involved apparent hypersensitivity. There are few reports of ergotism among individuals taking doses within the recommended limits or for brief periods of time. Although signs and symptoms of ergotism rarely develop even after long term intermittent use of the medication, take care to remain within the limits of recommended dosage. Other cardiovascular adverse effects reported with ergotamine; caffeine include transient sinus tachycardia or bradycardia and hypertension.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      cyanosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasoconstriction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    polyuria, tremor
    General Information
    The caffeine component of ergotamine; caffeine combinations is a CNS stimulant. At therapeutic or nontoxic doses, caffeine can cause heightened attentiveness, sinus tachycardia, and tremor. Caffeine is also a mild diuretic; polyuria can occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    paresthesias, vertigo, weakness
    General Information
    Neurological adverse events reported with ergotamine include numbness, paresthesias, vertigo, and weakness.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cardiac valvulopathy, pulmonary fibrosis, retroperitoneal fibrosis
    General Information
    There have been a few reports of ergotamine and caffeine therapy recipients developing retroperitoneal fibrosis and/or pleuro-pulmonary fibrosis. There have also been rare reports of cardiac valvulopathy (fibrotic thickening of the aortic, mitral, tricuspid, and/or pulmonary valves) with long-term continuous use of ergotamine and caffeine therapy. Do not use ergotamine for chronic daily administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      retroperitoneal fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac valvulopathy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    medication overuse headache, physiological dependence, withdrawal
    General Information
    Drug dependence may occur in some individuals after prolonged use of ergotamine; caffeine. Withdrawal symptoms such as dysphoria and/or rebound headaches have been reported after abrupt discontinuation of ergotamine. Monitor patients for possible physiological dependence and/or withdrawal while receiving ergotamine; caffeine. In addition, a caffeine withdrawal syndrome has been described in patients who have consumed or received caffeine daily for several weeks. Withdrawal symptoms include notable physical and psychiatric responses such as anxiety, dizziness, headache, or lethargy. Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including ergotamine; caffeine, may lead to medication overuse headache. Patients may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise patients about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of ergotamine; caffeine or any combination of therapy for at least 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      medication overuse headache
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    edema, pruritus
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions, including pruritus and localized edema, are associated with ergotamine; caffeine use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    fetal death, spontaneous fetal abortion, uterine contractions
    General Information
    Ergotamine; caffeine may induce fetal harm from the ergot alkaloid component. Retarded fetal growth and an increase in intrauterine fetal death, including spontaneous fetal abortion, have been seen in animals. Ergotamine stimulates uterine contractions and is a potent vasoconstrictor of the placental vascular bed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      spontaneous fetal abortion
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      fetal death
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      uterine contractions
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Ergotamine; caffeine is a combination of an ergot alkaloid with caffeine indicated for the treatment of acute migraine. Caffeine is added to the formulation to enhance cranial vasoconstrictive effects. Guidelines classify oral ergotamine; caffeine as having probable efficacy for the treatment of acute migraine. Ergotamine can produce serious cardiovascular vasoconstrictive complications, including coronary vasoconstriction with ischemic changes in people with coronary artery disease. Ergotamine; caffeine is contraindicated for coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, which can elevate ergotamine concentrations and increase the risk for vasospasm-induced peripheral or cerebral ischemia. Ergotamine; caffeine products were initially FDA-approved in 1976.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ergotamine binds at alpha-adrenergic, serotonergic, and dopaminergic D2 receptors. It is hypothesized that agonist activity at serotonin 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D, and possibly 5-HT1F receptors produces meningeal vasoconstriction and inhibits trigeminal neurotransmission. Ergotamine can cause vasoconstriction by stimulating alpha-adrenergic and serotonergic receptors. Actions at 5-HT1A and dopamine D2 receptors by ergotamine likely lead to the adverse effects of nausea, vomiting, or dysphoria. Caffeine produces cranial vasoconstriction.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Ergotamine: The absorption of ergotamine is incomplete and erratic. Compared with intravenous bioavailability (100%), bioavailability is less than 1% following oral administration. Peak plasma concentrations occur 1 to 2 hours following administration. Administration with caffeine increases the rate and extent of absorption.
Caffeine: Caffeine is well absorbed by the oral route. Following administration, peak plasma concentrations occur in 30 to 60 minutes.
    Name
    Other Route(s)
    Description
    Rectal Route
Ergotamine: The rectal absorption of ergotamine is incomplete and erratic. Compared with intravenous bioavailability (100%), bioavailability is 1% to 3% following rectal administration. Peak plasma concentrations occur 20 to 60 minutes following administration.
Caffeine: Rectal pharmacokinetic data are not available.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of sublingual ergotamine in hepatic impairment are unknown. Ergotamine is contraindicated in people with hepatic impairment since concentrations/exposure of ergotamine is expected to increase, which may lead to toxicity.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of ergotamine in renal impairment are unknown. Ergotamine is contraindicated in people with renal impairment.
  Text
  Ergotamine; caffeine combinations are administered orally or rectally.
Ergotamine: Ergotamine is extensively metabolized in the liver, primarily via CYP3A4 isoenzymes. About 90% of the metabolites are eliminated in the bile. Unchanged ergotamine is secreted erratically in the saliva; trace amounts appear in the feces and urine. The elimination half-life is roughly 2 hours; however, the medication may be stored in some tissues, which would account for the long-lasting therapeutic and toxic effects of the medication..
Caffeine: Caffeine is distributed rapidly to all body tissues and readily crosses the blood-brain and placental barriers. It is distributed into breast milk. In adults, caffeine is partially metabolized in the liver via demethylation reactions dependent on the hepatic CYP1A2 isoenzyme; major metabolites include paraxanthine (80%), theobromine (10%) and theophylline (4%). Approximately 1% to 5% of the dose is excreted unchanged. The plasma half-life is approximately 5 hours in adults.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP1A2
Ergotamine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of ergotamine with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated. Ergotamine has been shown to be an inhibitor of CYP3A catalyzed reactions. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer at the first sign of a migraine attack. Ergotamine is more effective if taken early in a migraine attack.
Do not exceed maximum daily or weekly dosage limits.
    Name
    Rectal Administration
    Description
    Administer at the first sign of a migraine attack. Ergotamine is more effective if taken early in a migraine attack.
Instruct individuals on the proper use of rectal suppositories.
Remove the wrapper. Moisten the suppository with water prior to insertion. If the suppository is too soft because of storage in a warm place, chill it in ice-cold water to solidify it before removing the wrapper.
Do not exceed maximum daily or weekly dosage limits.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    6 tablets/24 hours or per attack PO and not to exceed 10 tablets/week PO; or 2 suppositories/24 hours or per attack PR and not to exceed 5 suppositories/week PR.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    6 tablets/24 hours or per attack PO and not to exceed 10 tablets/week PO; or 2 suppositories/24 hours or per attack PR and not to exceed 5 suppositories/week PR.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Ergotamine; caffeine is contraindicated in people with hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Ergotamine; caffeine is contraindicated in people with renal impairment.
