=== Amphetamine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 1191)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Amphetamine sulfate is an orally administered central nervous system (CNS) stimulant used primarily to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD); however, the immediate-release tablet also carries indications for narcolepsy and exogenous obesity.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 12.5 mg/day PO (Adzenys XR products); 20 mg/day PO (Dyanavel XR); 60 mg/day PO (immediate-release products).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): emotional lability, euphoria, headache, insomnia, irritability, restlessness, supranormalization, agitation, anxiety, depression, dysphemia, dysphoria, formication, hallucinations, hostility, mania, paresthesias, psychosis, suicidal ideation, teeth grinding (bruxism), dyskinesia, tics, tourette's syndrome, bowel ischemia, bowel necrosis, dysgeusia, arrhythmia exacerbation, bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, chest pain (unspecified)

In an Overdose: Due to its toxic effects in overdose, amphetamine should only be used in those with major depression or suicidal ideation when absolutely necessary. Seizures may be associated with amphetamine toxicity; evaluate patients presenting with convulsions for other signs and symptoms of overdose. growth inhibition Data are inadequate to determine whether chronic use of stimulants, such as...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. substance abuse disorder Central nervous system (CNS) stimulants, such as amphetamines, have a high potential for abuse and misuse, which can lead to the development of a substance...

AMPHETAMINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Adzenys, Adzenys XR, Dyanavel XR, Evekeo, EVEKEO ODT

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of narcolepsy

Oral dosage (immediate-release tablet)
Adults, Adolescents, and Children 12 years and older


10 mg PO once daily in the morning initially. May titrate in 10 mg/day increments at weekly intervals to minimum effective dose. Max: 60 mg/day. Give the first dose on awakening; additional doses may be given at intervals of 4 to 6 hours. If insomnia or anorexia appear, reduce dosage.


Children 6 to 11 years


5 mg PO once daily in the morning initially. May titrate in 5 mg/day increments at weekly intervals to minimum effective dose. Max: 60 mg/day. Give the first dose on awakening; additional doses may be given at intervals of 4 to 6 hours. If insomnia or anorexia appear, reduce dosage.


For the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)

Oral dosage (immediate-release tablets; e.g., Evekeo)
Adults†


Dosing information from the manufacturer is not specifically available for this indication. However, treatment of adult ADD/ADHD is expected to be similar in adults as in children, with higher maximum doses. Initially, give 5 or 10 mg PO daily upon awakening. May titrate in increments of 5 to 10 mg at weekly intervals until optimal response is obtained. After the morning dose, may give additional doses (5 or 10 mg) at intervals of 4 to 6 hours. Dose range: 5 to 60 mg/day PO, given in divided doses. If bothersome side effects appear (e.g., insomnia or anorexia), reduce dosage. Use the lowest effective dosage after stabilization. Late evening doses should be avoided to reduce risk of insomnia. Amphetamine has not been systematically studied in geriatric adults; it is advisable to begin at the low end of the dosage range and titrate cautiously.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years


5 mg PO once or twice daily initially. May titrate in 5 mg/day increments at weekly intervals to minimum effective dose. An additional dose may be given after 4 to 6 hours if needed. Use the lowest effective dose after stabilization. Rarely is it necessary to exceed 40 mg/day.


Children 3 to 5 years


2.5 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate in 2.5 mg/day increments at weekly intervals to minimum effective dose. An additional 1 to 2 doses may be given at 4 to 6 hour intervals if needed. Maximum dosage information is not available; however, doses should not exceed 40 mg/day, the maximum recommended dose for children 6 years and older. Although this dosing information is available in the FDA-approved package labeling, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) does not recommend the use of amphetamine in this age group due to lack of safety and efficacy data.


Oral dosage (immediate-release orally disintegrating tablets; e.g., Evekeo ODT)
Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years


5 mg PO once or twice daily initially. May titrate in 5 mg/day increments at weekly intervals to minimum effective dose. An additional dose may be given after 4 to 6 hours if needed. Use the lowest effective dose after stabilization. Rarely is it necessary to exceed 40 mg/day. Switching from immediate-release tablets to immediate-release orally disintegrating tablets can be done on a mg-per-mg basis. Do not substitute for other amphetamine products on a mg-per-mg basis due to different amphetamine base compositions and differing pharmacokinetic profiles.


Oral dosage (extended-release oral suspension or extended-release tablets; e.g., Dyanavel XR)
Adults


2.5 to 5 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate in 2.5 to 10 mg/day increments every 4 to 7 days to minimum effective dose. Max: 20 mg/day. Use lowest effective dose after stabilization. SWITCHING PRODUCTS: The Dyanavel XR oral suspension can be substituted with Dyanavel XR tablets on a mg-per-mg basis. When switching from other amphetamine products, discontinue previous treatment, and initiate with 2.5 or 5 mg PO once daily, then titrate. Do not substitute for other amphetamine products on a mg-per-mg basis due to different amphetamine base compositions and differing pharmacokinetic profiles.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years


2.5 to 5 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate in 2.5 to 10 mg/day increments every 4 to 7 days to minimum effective dose. Max: 20 mg/day. Use lowest effective dose after stabilization. SWITCHING PRODUCTS: The Dyanavel XR oral suspension can be substituted with Dyanavel XR tablets on a mg-per-mg basis. When switching from other amphetamine products, discontinue previous treatment, and initiate with 2.5 or 5 mg PO once daily, then titrate. Do not substitute for other amphetamine products on a mg-per-mg basis due to different amphetamine base compositions and differing pharmacokinetic profiles.


Oral dosage (extended-release ODT or extended-release suspension; e.g., Adzenys XR-ODT and Adzenys ER oral suspension)
Adults


ADULTS NOT CURRENTLY TAKING AN AMPHETAMINE PRODUCT: 12.5 mg PO once daily in the morning. Amphetamine has not been systematically studied in geriatric adults; it is advisable to begin at the low end of the dosage range and titrate cautiously. SWITCHING FROM ANOTHER AMPHETAMINE PRODUCT (EXCEPT ADDERALL XR): Discontinue the other amphetamine product, and then initiate Adzenys XR. The usual recommended dosage for adults is 12.5 mg PO once daily in the morning, but individualize to optimal clinical response. Do not substitute for other amphetamine products on a mg-per-mg basis due to different compositions and pharmacokinetic profiles. ADULTS CURRENTLY TAKING 5 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: Initially, 3.1 mg PO once daily in the morning; titrate if needed. ADULTS CURRENTLY TAKING 10 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: Initially, 6.3 mg PO once daily in the morning; titrate if needed. ADULTS CURRENTLY TAKING 15 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: Initially, 9.4 mg PO once daily in the morning; titrate if needed. ADULTS CURRENTLY TAKING 20 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: 12.5 mg PO once daily in the morning.


Adolescents


ADOLESCENTS NOT CURRENTLY TAKING AN AMPHETAMINE PRODUCT: Initially, 6.3 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate by 3.1 or 6.3 mg/day at weekly intervals. Max: 12.5 mg/day PO. SWITCHING FROM ANOTHER AMPHETAMINE PRODUCT (EXCEPT ADDERALL XR): After discontinuing the other amphetamine product, initiate Adzenys XR at 6.3 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate by 3.1 or 6.3 mg/day at weekly intervals. Individualize dosage to therapeutic effect. Max: 12.5 mg/day PO. Do not substitute for other amphetamine products on a mg-per-mg basis due to different compositions and pharmacokinetic profiles. ADOLESCENTS CURRENTLY TAKING 5 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: Initially, 3.1 mg PO once daily in the morning, then titrate if needed. ADOLESCENTS CURRENTLY TAKING 10 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: Initially, 6.3 mg PO once daily in the morning, then titrate if needed. ADOLESCENTS CURRENTLY TAKING 15 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: Initially, 9.4 mg PO once daily in the morning, then titrate if needed. ADOLESCENTS CURRENTLY TAKING 20 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: 12.5 mg PO once daily in the morning.


Children 6 to 12 years


CHILDREN NOT CURRENTLY TAKING AN AMPHETAMINE PRODUCT: Initially, 6.3 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate by 3.1 or 6.3 mg/day at weekly intervals. Max: 18.8 mg/day PO. SWITCHING FROM ANOTHER AMPHETAMINE PRODUCT (EXCEPT ADDERALL XR): After discontinuing the other amphetamine product, initiate Adzenys XR at 6.3 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate by 3.1 or 6.3 mg/day at weekly intervals. Individualize dosage to therapeutic effect. Max: 18.8 mg/day PO. Do not substitute for other amphetamine products on a mg-per-mg basis due to different compositions and pharmacokinetic profiles. CHILDREN CURRENTLY TAKING 5 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: Initially, 3.1 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate in 3.1 or 6.3 mg/day increments at weekly intervals if needed. Max: 18.8 mg/day. CHILDREN CURRENTLY TAKING 10 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: Initially, 6.3 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate in 3.1 or 6.3 mg/day increments at weekly intervals if needed. Max: 18.8 mg/day. CHILDREN CURRENTLY TAKING 15 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: Initially, 9.4 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate in 3.1 or 6.3 mg/day increments at weekly intervals if needed. Max: 18.8 mg/day. CHILDREN CURRENTLY TAKING 20 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: Initially, 12.5 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate in 3.1 or 6.3 mg/day increments at weekly intervals if needed. Max: 18.8 mg/day. CHILDREN CURRENTLY TAKING 25 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: Initially, 15.7 mg PO once daily in the morning. May titrate in 3.1 mg/day increments at weekly intervals if needed. Max: 18.8 mg/day. CHILDREN CURRENTLY TAKING 30 MG/DAY OF ADDERALL XR: 18.8 mg PO once daily in the morning; do not exceed this dose.


For the short-term (i.e., 8 to 12 weeks) treatment of exogenous obesity

Oral dosage (immediate-release tablet)
Adults


5 to 10 mg PO up to 3 times per day, taken 30 to 60 minutes before meals. Max: 30 mg/day. Continue only if the patient has satisfactory weight loss within the first 4 weeks of treatment (i.e., weight loss of at least 4 pounds, or as determined by the physician). When tolerance to the anorectic effect develops, do not exceed the recommended dose in an attempt to increase the effect; instead, the drug should be discontinued. Use for short-term (8 to 12 weeks) only.


Children and Adolescents 12 years and older



5 to 10 mg PO up to 3 times per day, taken 30 to 60 minutes before meals. Max: 30 mg/day. Only continue if the patient has satisfactory weight loss within the first 4 weeks of treatment. When tolerance to the anorectic effect develops, do not exceed the dosage in an attempt to increase the effect; instead, discontinue. Use for short-term (8 to 12 weeks) only. Short-term pharmacotherapy, such as with amphetamine anorectics, has not been shown to produce longer-term health benefits in pediatric patients and cannot be generally recommended.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

substance abuse disorder


Central nervous system (CNS) stimulants, such as amphetamines, have a high potential for abuse and misuse, which can lead to the development of a substance abuse disorder, including addiction. Assess each individual's risk for substance abuse (including alcohol use disorder), misuse, or addiction before prescribing a CNS stimulant, and monitor for the development of these behaviors or conditions throughout treatment. Children and adolescents with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are more prone to substance abuse compared to those without ADHD, and those with co-occurring mental health conditions (e.g., depression, disruptive behavior disorders) are at even greater risk; however, appropriate treatment of ADHD with medication and behavior therapy may reduce the risk of developing a substance abuse disorder. Prescribing and dispensing the smallest appropriate quantity may help to minimize abuse, misuse, and overdosage. CNS stimulants can be diverted for non-medical use into illicit channels or distribution. The most common source of non-medical use is sharing from family or friends with misuse of the individual's own prescription or obtaining from illicit channels occurring less frequently. Sharing of CNS stimulant medications can lead to substance abuse disorder and addiction in those they are shared with. Misuse and abuse of CNS stimulants can result in potential for overdose or poisoning and death; the risk is increased with higher doses or unapproved methods of administration, such as snorting or injection. Educate individuals and their families about these risks, proper storage, and proper disposal of any unused medication. Misuse or abuse may cause increased heart rate, respiratory rate, or blood pressure; sweating; dilated pupils; hyperactivity; restlessness; insomnia; decreased appetite; loss of coordination; tremors; flushed skin; vomiting; and/or abdominal pain. Anxiety, psychosis, hostility, aggression, and suicidal or homicidal ideation have also been observed with stimulant abuse or misuse.


mood disorder, psychotic disorder, suicidal ideation


CNS stimulants should be used with caution in those with bipolar disorder or a pre-existing psychotic disorder (e.g., schizophrenia). CNS stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in individuals with pre-existing psychosis. These medications can also induce mania or a mixed episode in individuals with bipolar disorder. Prior to initiating treatment with amphetamine, screen individuals for risk factors for bipolar disorder or developing an episode of mania (e.g., mood disorder, comorbid or history of depressive symptoms, or a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, or depression). At recommended doses, CNS stimulants may also cause psychotic or manic symptoms (such as hallucinations, delusions, or mania) in individuals without a prior history of psychosis or mania. Advise individuals and their caregivers to promptly report suicidal ideation or any changes in mood or behavior and consider discontinuing treatment if these symptoms occur.   


cardiac disease, family history of sudden cardiac death


Sudden death has been reported in individuals with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious cardiac disease who were treated with CNS stimulants at the recommended ADHD dosages. Avoid use of CNS stimulants in individuals with known structural cardiac abnormalities, cardiomyopathy, serious cardiac arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, or other serious cardiac disease. Prior to initiating any CNS stimulant, carefully assess individuals for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful patient history, assess for any family history of sudden cardiac death or ventricular arrhythmia, and complete a physical exam) and counsel individuals to report symptoms of cardiac disease (i.e., exertional chest pain, unexplained syncope) immediately. Although it is reasonable for a health care provider to obtain an ECG as part of the cardiovascular evaluation, it is not mandatory. Treatment with stimulant products should not be withheld because an ECG is not performed. However, any individual with significant findings on physical examination, ECG, or from individual or family history (such as known congenital heart disease, structural heart disease, arrhythmias, or a family history of sudden cardiac death in members younger than 35 years of age) should be referred for consultation with a pediatric cardiologist prior to starting the stimulant medication. Overall, studies have not shown an association between the use of ADHD medications and adverse cardiovascular events; however, long-term cardiovascular risks associated with ADHD medications are unknown. CNS stimulant medications, including amphetamine, can cause an increase in blood pressure (mean increase approximately 2 to 4 mmHg) and heart rate (mean increase approximately 3 to 6 beats per minute). Some individuals may have larger increases. Monitor all individuals receiving amphetamine for hypertension and tachycardia.   Careful monitoring should be performed after initiation of stimulant medications; if any abnormal findings or arrhythmias are diagnosed during treatment, consider discontinuation of the stimulant.


tics, Tourette's syndrome


CNS stimulants, including amphetamine, have been associated with the onset or exacerbation of motor and verbal tics. Worsening of Tourette syndrome has also been reported. Prior to initiating amphetamine, carefully assess family history and clinically evaluate individuals for motor or verbal tics or Tourette syndrome. Regularly monitor amphetamine-treated individuals for the emergence or worsening of tics or Tourette syndrome and discontinue treatment if clinically appropriate.


peripheral vasoconstriction or ischemia


Stimulant medications, such as amphetamine, are associated with peripheral vasoconstriction or ischemia, including Raynaud phenomenon. Worsening of peripheral vascular disease is possible. Effects on circulation have been observed with therapeutic doses at different times throughout therapy in all age groups. Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild and generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of the drug. However, very rare sequelae include digital skin ulcer and/or soft tissue breakdown. Carefully monitor all individuals for digital changes during treatment with stimulant medications, especially those with pre-existing circulation problems. Instruct individuals to seek immediate medical attention if any new digital numbness, pain, skin discoloration, or temperature sensitivity occur, or if unexplained wounds appear on their fingers or toes. Further clinical evaluation (e.g., rheumatology referral) may be appropriate for certain individuals.  


geriatric


Geriatric adults or debilitated individuals may be more susceptible to the CNS and sympathomimetic side effects of the amphetamines; use with caution in the older adult. Medication should be titrated with low doses initially and with a slow increase.


pregnancy


Amphetamine use is not recommended during pregnancy. This medication should only be used during pregnancy if the expected benefits clearly outweigh potential fetal risk. Limited data from published literature and postmarketing reports during human pregnancy are not sufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage. There may be risks to the fetus associated with the use of CNS stimulants during pregnancy. Amphetamines cause vasoconstriction and may decrease placental perfusion. This vasoconstriction can also lead to hypertension in the pregnant person. In addition, amphetamines can stimulate uterine contractions, increasing the risk of premature delivery and low birth weight. Much of the historic data on amphetamine use during pregnancy is derived from studies of illicit drug use, which may be complicated by comorbid substance abuse or ingestion of higher doses of amphetamines than what are typically prescribed. These include increased incidence of premature birth, low birth weight and length, lower occipitofrontal circumference, and physical withdrawal symptoms (e.g., abnormal sleep patterns, poor feeding, tremor, agitation, fatigue, and hypertonia). However, more recent data demonstrate that risks associated with the use of prescription amphetamines may be lower than initially thought. Among 671 mother-child pairs enrolled in the Collaborative Perinatal Project who had first trimester exposure to amphetamines and 1,898 mother-child pairs with amphetamine exposures at any time during pregnancy, there was no evidence suggesting a relationship to large categories of major or minor malformations. Similarly, a large cohort study of pregnancy outcomes in the United States and 5 Nordic countries were compared to assess for the risks of major congenital malformations and cardiac effects in infants exposed to stimulants in utero. Of the 5,571 pregnant people who filled a prescription for amphetamines during the first trimester, 253 (4.54%) were diagnosed with malformations. In infants who were not exposed, 62,966 (3.5%) of the nearly 1.8 million infants developed malformations. After adjusting for underlying psychiatric disorders and other potential confounders, no increased risks were observed for amphetamine use compared to controls. Animal studies identify long-term neurochemical and behavioral effects in offspring at clinically relevant amphetamine doses. A large cohort study evaluated stimulant use in the second half of pregnancy in 4,693 amphetamine/dextroamphetamine and 786 methylphenidate-exposed pregnancies compared to 2,496,711 unexposed pregnancies. This study found exposure to these medications in utero did not increase the risk of childhood neurodevelopmental disorders after adjustment for confounders, such as demographic characteristics and maternal ADHD or mental health diagnoses. The National Pregnancy Registry for ADHD medications is dedicated to evaluating the safety of ADHD medication exposure during pregnancy. Care teams are encouraged to register patients at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry or by calling 1-866-961-2388.


children


Extended-release amphetamine is not recommended for use in children less than 6 years due to higher medication exposure and increased adverse reactions. An FDA analysis reported children younger than 6 years receiving extended-release stimulants have higher adverse reaction rates, particularly significant weight loss, compared to older children on the same dose. For children younger than 6 years who experience weight loss or other adverse reactions while receiving extended-release stimulants, consider discontinuing the medication or switching to an alternative, such as an immediate-release stimulant. Monitor growth and development and provide necessary interventions to minimize weight loss.


neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero are at risk for withdrawal symptoms after delivery. Monitor neonates and infants for symptoms of withdrawal such as feeding difficulties, irritability, agitation, and excessive drowsiness.


breast-feeding


Use amphetamine with caution during breast-feeding. FDA-approved product labeling does not recommend breast-feeding in individuals taking amphetamines. Amphetamine is present in human breast milk in small amounts, with a relative infant dose between 2% to 13.8% and a milk/plasma ratio between 1.9 and 7.5. Long-term neurodevelopmental effects on infants are unknown. Large dosages of amphetamines may interfere with milk production, especially in people without well established lactation. If therapeutic dosages of amphetamine are used during breastfeeding, monitor the child for irritability, insomnia, and poor feeding. Very limited data in small studies and case reports observe no or mild adverse effects including colic, constipation, crying/restlessness, and/or somnolence. Methylphenidate, dexmethylphenidate, and serdexmethylphenidate/methylphenidate are alternative options for treatment of ADHD in breast-feeding people, as limited data indicates that methylphenidate levels in milk are very low and not detectable in infant serum.


ethanol ingestion


Ethanol ingestion may result in a more rapid release of amphetamine from certain extended-release (ER) products or their generic equivalents; advise individuals taking these products to avoid alcohol. In vitro studies of Dyanavel XR oral suspension, Adzenys XR ODT, and Adzenys XR oral suspension products showed potential for alcohol-induced dose dumping in the presence of 40% alcohol. Dose dumping was not observed in the presence of lower alcohol concentrations. Dose-dumping potential was not observed during in vitro studies of the Dynavel XR tablets.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Amphetamine use is not recommended during pregnancy. This medication should only be used during pregnancy if the expected benefits clearly outweigh potential fetal risk. Limited data from published literature and postmarketing reports during human pregnancy are not sufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage. There may be risks to the fetus associated with the use of CNS stimulants during pregnancy. Amphetamines cause vasoconstriction and may decrease placental perfusion. This vasoconstriction can also lead to hypertension in the pregnant person. In addition, amphetamines can stimulate uterine contractions, increasing the risk of premature delivery and low birth weight. Much of the historic data on amphetamine use during pregnancy is derived from studies of illicit drug use, which may be complicated by comorbid substance abuse or ingestion of higher doses of amphetamines than what are typically prescribed. These include increased incidence of premature birth, low birth weight and length, lower occipitofrontal circumference, and physical withdrawal symptoms (e.g., abnormal sleep patterns, poor feeding, tremor, agitation, fatigue, and hypertonia). However, more recent data demonstrate that risks associated with the use of prescription amphetamines may be lower than initially thought. Among 671 mother-child pairs enrolled in the Collaborative Perinatal Project who had first trimester exposure to amphetamines and 1,898 mother-child pairs with amphetamine exposures at any time during pregnancy, there was no evidence suggesting a relationship to large categories of major or minor malformations. Similarly, a large cohort study of pregnancy outcomes in the United States and 5 Nordic countries were compared to assess for the risks of major congenital malformations and cardiac effects in infants exposed to stimulants in utero. Of the 5,571 pregnant people who filled a prescription for amphetamines during the first trimester, 253 (4.54%) were diagnosed with malformations. In infants who were not exposed, 62,966 (3.5%) of the nearly 1.8 million infants developed malformations. After adjusting for underlying psychiatric disorders and other potential confounders, no increased risks were observed for amphetamine use compared to controls. Animal studies identify long-term neurochemical and behavioral effects in offspring at clinically relevant amphetamine doses. A large cohort study evaluated stimulant use in the second half of pregnancy in 4,693 amphetamine/dextroamphetamine and 786 methylphenidate-exposed pregnancies compared to 2,496,711 unexposed pregnancies. This study found exposure to these medications in utero did not increase the risk of childhood neurodevelopmental disorders after adjustment for confounders, such as demographic characteristics and maternal ADHD or mental health diagnoses. The National Pregnancy Registry for ADHD medications is dedicated to evaluating the safety of ADHD medication exposure during pregnancy. Care teams are encouraged to register patients at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry or by calling 1-866-961-2388.


Interactions

Acarbose: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents. Increasing urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure by reducing urinary excretion of amphetamine. A urine pH more than 7.5 has been observed to increase the half-life of amphetamine from 8 to 10.5 hours to 16 to 31 hours when compared to a pH less than 6. Additionally, a urine pH more than 8 has been observed to reduce the amount of amphetamine excreted in the urine over 16 hours to less than 3% of the original dose; a 5-fold reduction compared to controls.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering alfentanil with amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Alkalinizing Agents: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Careful observation is required when amantadine is administered concurrently with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants. An increase in stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias may occur.
Ambrisentan: (Minor) Sympathomimetics such as amphetamine or dextroamphetamine can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy of ambrisentan.
Amifampridine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with amphetamines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Amphetamines may increase the risk of seizures.
aMILoride: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
amLODIPine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Amoxapine: (Major) Concomitant use of amoxapine with sympathomimetics should be avoided whenever possible; use with caution when concurrent use cannot be avoided. One drug information reference suggests that cyclic antidepressants potentiate the pharmacologic effects of indirect-acting sympathomimetics, such as amphetamine, however, the data are not consistent.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Antacids: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when arformoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines, (e.g., dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine, amphetamine) has not been studied. In a single-dose study of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, no pharmacokinetic interactions occurred but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin C: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amphetamines and gastrointestinal acidifying agents, such as ascorbic acid, vitamin C, should be used with caution. Vitamin C lowers the absorption of amphetamines, resulting in reduced efficacy. It may be advisable to separate times of administration. In addition, ascorbic acid acts as a urinary acidifier, which reduces the renal tubular reabsorption of amphetamines, accelerating amphetamine clearance and reducing the duration of effect. If combined use is necessary, the amphetamine dose should be adjusted according to clinical response as needed.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and atomoxetine use. Because of possible effects on blood pressure, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with other drugs that affect blood pressure, such as amphetamine; dextroamphetamine.
Azilsartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Benazepril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. (Major) Urinary acidifying agents, such as ammonium chloride, phosphorus salts, and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate), reduce the tubular reabsorption of amphetamines. As a result, amphetamine clearance is accelerated and the duration of effect is reduced. Combination therapy should be avoided if possible.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when sympathomimetics are administered with bretylium. The pressor and arrhythmogenic effects of catecholamines are enhanced by bretylium.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Limit the concomitant use of bromocriptine and a sympathomimetic to 10 days or less. Both medications may increase the risk for blood pressure elevations and tachycardia.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Bumetanide: (Minor) Amphetamine and Dextroamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including amphetamine; dextroamphetamine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including amphetamine; dextroamphetamine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Coadministration of buspirone with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Buspirone has some serotonergic properties. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants. Patients may need to reduce, limit, or avoid caffeine intake. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Calcium Carbonate: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and H2-blockers concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions. (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Moderate) Sodium oxybate has the potential to induce seizures; it has been speculated that this effect may be mediated through the action of sodium oxybate at GABA receptors. Although convulsant effects occur primarily at high dosages, sodium oxybate should be used cautiously with psychostimulants that are known to lower seizure threshold such as the amphetamines. Note that CNS stimulants, including the amphetamines, are frequently used in the treatment of narcolepsy, and clinical trials involving the use of psychostimulants with sodium oxybate have not found the combinations to be unsafe. Pharmacodynamic interactions cannot be ruled out, however.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Captopril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering amphetamines with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tramadol. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Further study is needed to fully elucidate the severity and frequency of adverse effects that may occur from concomitant administration of amphetamines and tramadol. Patients receiving tramadol and an amphetamine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and during dosage increases. The amphetamine and tramadol should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. In addition, the risk of seizures from the use of tramadol may be increased with concomitant use of CNS stimulants that may induce seizures, including the amphetamines. Extreme caution and close clinical monitoring is recommended if these agents must be used together.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and H2-blockers concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like citalopram with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Clevidipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
cloNIDine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving clonidine and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine. If unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine and vasoconstrictor agents during nasal and sinus surgery. The risk for nervousness, irritability, convulsions, and other cardiac arrhythmias may increase during coadministration.
Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dacomitinib: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity, including serotonin syndrome, may be increased during concurrent use with dacomitinib. Concurrent use of dacomitinib, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, may increase exposure to the amphetamine increasing the risk for serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and dacomitinib should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dexlansoprazole: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including amphetamine; dextroamphetamine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of quinidine, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
dilTIAZem: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxazosin: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving doxazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with sympathomimetics may result in additive hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity. Dronabinol, THC has been associated with occasional hypotension, hypertension, syncope, and tachycardia. In a study of 7 adult males, combinations of IV cocaine and smoked marijuana, 1 g marijuana cigarette, 0 to 2.7% delta-9-THC, increased the heart rate above levels seen with either agent alone, with increases plateauing at 50 bpm.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Eplerenone: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving eplerenone and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like escitalopram with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and an amphetamine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as amphetamines, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Eslicarbazepine: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary. Additionally, amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide, ethotoin (hydantoin), phenobarbital, and phenytoin, the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Minor) Amphetamine and Dextroamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol while taking some dosage forms (e.g., Mydayis extended-release capsules) of amphetamine/dextroamphetamine salts. Consumption of alcohol while taking such dosage forms may result in a more rapid release of the dose of mixed amphetamine salts. Such effects may potentially lead to serious side effects such as acute anxiety, problems with sleep, or increases in heart rate or blood pressure that may lead to heart problems or stroke.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. The amphetamines may also delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Etomidate: (Major) Inhalational general anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of dextroamphetamine. Dosages of the amphetamines should be substantially reduced prior to surgery, and caution should be observed with concurrent use of anesthetics.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Famotidine: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and H2-blockers concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Felodipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and amphetamines with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) If concomitant use of fentanyl and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and fluoxetine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and salmeterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like fluvoxamine with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Food: (Moderate) In general, food does not significantly interact with the amphetamine stimulants, a dose may be taken with or without food. However, certain gastrointestinal acidifying agents (e.g., certain fruit juices, etc.) can lower the oral absorption of amphetamines. To ensure proper absorption, it may be prudent for the patient to avoid citrus fruits and citrus juices 1 hour before a dose, at the time of dosing, and for the 1 hour following a dose. In addition, the excretion of amphetamines is increased in acidic urine and decreased in alkaline urine. Foods that acidify the urine, such as cranberry juice, orange juice, or those that contain vitamin C (ascorbic acid) may increase amphetamine renal excretion. Conversely, foods that alkalinize the urine, such as beets, dairy products, kale, spinach may slightly slow urinary excretion of amphetamines. Patients should not significantly alter their diets, however, as these changes in urinary pH from foods are not expected to be clinically significant for most patients. (Minor) In general, food does not significantly interact with the amphetamine stimulants, a dose may be taken with or without food. Foods that alkalinize the urine, such as beets, dairy products, kale, spinach may slightly slow urinary excretion of amphetamines. Patients should not significantly alter their diets, however, as these alkaline changes in urinary pH from foods are not expected to be clinically significant for most patients.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fosinopril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Frovatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Furosemide: (Minor) Amphetamine and Dextroamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and amphetamines is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents, such as amphetamines, may increase blood pressure and reduce the antihypertensive effects of antihypertensive agents, such as guanfacine. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate periodically when prescribed together. Guanfacine may be used adjunctively to psychostimulants such as amphetamines in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Pharmacokinetic studies reveal that guanfacine does not influence lisdexamfetamine pharmacokinetics and lisdexamfetamine does not affect guanfacine pharmacokinetics. No dosage adjustments are required when guanfacine and amphetamines are used together for ADHD. Monitor heart rate, blood pressure and for sedation during ADHD treatment.
H2-blockers: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and H2-blockers concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydromorphone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. (Major) Urinary acidifying agents, such as ammonium chloride, phosphorus salts, and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate), reduce the tubular reabsorption of amphetamines. As a result, amphetamine clearance is accelerated and the duration of effect is reduced. Combination therapy should be avoided if possible.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and H2-blockers concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Iloprost: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with iloprost. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including iloprost. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Indapamide may increase blood levels and therefore potentiate the actions of amphetamines. Thiazide diuretics and related drugs like indapamide may increase urinary pH, acting as a urinary alkalinizer, thus reducing urinary excretion and increasing blood concentrations of the amphetamine. Co-administration of amphetamines and urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided if possible. If needed, monitor for common amphetamine side effects, including decreased appetite, anxiety, dizziness, dry mouth, irritability, insomnia, nausea, increased blood pressure or increased heart rate.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue sympathomimetics for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart sympathomimetics until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as sympathomimetics, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Iodixanol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ioflupane I 123: (Major) Hold amphetamines for 7 days, or at least 5 medication half-lives, prior to performing dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging with radiolabeled ioflupane. Amphetamines bind to the dopamine transporter which may interfere with striatal tracer binding and increase the risk for a false-positive scan.
Iohexol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iopromide: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ioversol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Irbesartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Isoflurane: (Major) Inhalational general anesthetics (e.g., enflurane, halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of stimulants. Dosages of the amphetamines should be substantially reduced prior to surgery, and caution should be observed with concurrent use of anesthetics.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Isradipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when ketamine and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine salts are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Amphetamine; dextroamphetamine salts may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of ketamine.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Levamlodipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of levorphanol and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linezolid: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of linezolid. Linezolid possesses MAO-inhibiting activity and can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of the amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Linezolid also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue serotonergic drugs and institute appropriate medical management.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisinopril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Lithium: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines and lithium may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Lithium has central serotonergic effects. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation, after a dose increase, or the addition of other serotonergic medications. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Loop diuretics: (Minor) Amphetamine and Dextroamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of ritonavir, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Losartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Loxapine: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Lurasidone: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Magnesium Salts: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Mecamylamine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by mecamylamine. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Meperidine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of meperidine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Metaproterenol: (Major) Caution and close observation should also be used when metaproterenol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Methadone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of methadone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Urinary alkalinizers, such as methazolamide, result in decreased renal excretion of amphetamines. Monitor for amphetamine-related side effects. Avoid concomitant use in amphetamine overdose situations.
Methenamine: (Major) Urinary acidifying agents, such as ammonium chloride, phosphorus salts, and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate), reduce the tubular reabsorption of amphetamines. As a result, amphetamine clearance is accelerated and the duration of effect is reduced. Combination therapy should be avoided if possible.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. (Major) Urinary acidifying agents, such as ammonium chloride, phosphorus salts, and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate), reduce the tubular reabsorption of amphetamines. As a result, amphetamine clearance is accelerated and the duration of effect is reduced. Combination therapy should be avoided if possible.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Major) Urinary acidifying agents, such as ammonium chloride, phosphorus salts, and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate), reduce the tubular reabsorption of amphetamines. As a result, amphetamine clearance is accelerated and the duration of effect is reduced. Combination therapy should be avoided if possible.
Methohexital: (Major) Inhalational general anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of dextroamphetamine. Dosages of the amphetamines should be substantially reduced prior to surgery, and caution should be observed with concurrent use of anesthetics.
Methsuximide: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. The amphetamines may also delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Methyldopa: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving methyldopa and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents.
Methylene Blue: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as amphetamines, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
metOLazone: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mirtazapine with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Modafinil: (Moderate) The use of modafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines (e.g., amphetamine, dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine), has not been extensively studied. Patients receiving combination therapy of modafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other CNS stimulant-related side effects. In single-dose studies of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, no significant pharmacokinetic interactions occurred, but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted.
Moexipril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Molindone: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Morphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of morphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of nalbuphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Naratriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and nefazodone. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
NiCARdipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
NIFEdipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
niMODipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of ritonavir, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Nisoldipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nizatidine: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and H2-blockers concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and fluoxetine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Olmesartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects. (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxymorphone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Pantoprazole: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and paroxetine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Perindopril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use dextroamphetamine with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary. Additionally, the amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of phenobarbital; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use dextroamphetamine with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary. Additionally, the amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of phenobarbital; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Major) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents. Due to the risk of unopposed alpha-adrenergic activity, amphetamines should be used cautiously with beta-blockers. Increased blood pressure, bradycardia, or heart block may occur due to excessive alpha-adrenergic receptor stimulation. In particular, amphetamines can inhibit the antihypertensive response to guanadrel, an adrenergic antagonist that causes depletion of norepinephrine in the synapse. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Phentermine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Phentolamine: (Major) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents. Due to the risk of unopposed alpha-adrenergic activity, amphetamines should be used cautiously with beta-blockers. Increased blood pressure, bradycardia, or heart block may occur due to excessive alpha-adrenergic receptor stimulation. Phentolamine may decrease, but not completely reverse, the pressor response of amphetamine overdose. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of phenytoin during coadministration with amphetamine; dextroamphetamine salts. Amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of phenytoin.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium Chloride: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium Citrate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prazosin: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving prazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as prazosin.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Primidone: (Major) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures.
Procarbazine: (Major) Because procarbazine exhibits some monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity, sympathomimetic drugs should be avoided. As with MAOIs, the use of a sympathomimetic drug with procarbazine may precipitate hypertensive crisis or other serious side effects. In the presence of MAOIs, drugs that cause release of norepinephrine induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses. In general, do not use a sympathomimetic drug unless clinically necessary (e.g., medical emergencies, agents like dopamine) within the 14 days prior, during or 14 days after procarbazine therapy. If use is necessary within 2 weeks of the MAOI drug, in general the initial dose of the sympathomimetic agent must be greatly reduced. Patients should be counseled to avoid non-prescription (OTC) decongestants and other drug products, weight loss products, and energy supplements that contain sympathomimetic agents.
Propofol: (Major) Inhalational general anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of dextroamphetamine. Dosages of the amphetamines should be substantially reduced prior to surgery, and caution should be observed with concurrent use of anesthetics.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Quinapril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of quinidine, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using racepinephrine inhalation are advised to avoid other non-prescription products containing sympathomimetics since additive adverse effects on the cardiovascular and nervous system are possible, some which may be undesirable. Side effects such as nausea, tremor, nervousness, difficulty with sleep, and increased heart rate or blood pressure may be additive. Patients should avoid use of non-prescription decongestants, such as phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine, while using racepinephrine inhalations. Patients should avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients that are reported or claimed to have a stimulant or weight-loss effect, such as ephedrine and ephedra, Ma huang, and phenylpropanolamine. Patients taking prescription sympathomimetic or stimulant medications (including amphetamines, methylphenidate, dexmethylphenidate, isometheptane, epinephrine) should seek health care professional advice prior to the use of racepinephrine inhalations; consider therapeutic alternatives to racepinephrine for these patients.
Ramipril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD and weight loss, non-prescription nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants, and weight loss dietary supplements containing Ephedra. Although sympathomimetics are contraindicated for use with other non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. One case of elevated blood pressure has been reported in a patient during concurrent use of the recommended dose of rasagiline and ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline. One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of another MAO-B inhibitor, selegiline, in combination with ephedrine. It should be noted that the MAO-B selectivity of rasagiline decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose and interactions with sympathomimetics may be more likely to occur at these higher doses.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering remifentanil with amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Riociguat: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with riociguat. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including riociguat. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of ritonavir, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with amphetamines due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as amphetamines. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and salmeterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) The product labels for amphetamines contraindicate use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including selegiline, due to the risk of hypertensive crisis or serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. The manufacturers of selegiline products recommend caution and monitoring of blood pressure during concurrent use with sympathomimetics.
Selexipag: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like sertraline with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Inhalational general anesthetics (e.g., enflurane, halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of stimulants. Dosages of the amphetamines should be substantially reduced prior to surgery, and caution should be observed with concurrent use of anesthetics.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sodium Acetate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Lactate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Oxybate: (Moderate) Sodium oxybate has the potential to induce seizures; it has been speculated that this effect may be mediated through the action of sodium oxybate at GABA receptors. Although convulsant effects occur primarily at high dosages, sodium oxybate should be used cautiously with psychostimulants that are known to lower seizure threshold such as the amphetamines. Note that CNS stimulants, including the amphetamines, are frequently used in the treatment of narcolepsy, and clinical trials involving the use of psychostimulants with sodium oxybate have not found the combinations to be unsafe. Pharmacodynamic interactions cannot be ruled out, however.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and amphetamines, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Spironolactone: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Coadministration of St. John's Wort with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome has been reported with both drugs when taken alone, but especially when coadministered with other serotonergic agents. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Succinimides: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. The amphetamines may also delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering sufentanil with amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
SUMAtriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tapentadol and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Telmisartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Indapamide may increase blood levels and therefore potentiate the actions of amphetamines. Thiazide diuretics and related drugs like indapamide may increase urinary pH, acting as a urinary alkalinizer, thus reducing urinary excretion and increasing blood concentrations of the amphetamine. Co-administration of amphetamines and urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided if possible. If needed, monitor for common amphetamine side effects, including decreased appetite, anxiety, dizziness, dry mouth, irritability, insomnia, nausea, increased blood pressure or increased heart rate. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Terazosin: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving terazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin.
Terbutaline: (Major) Concomitant use of sympathomimetics with beta-agonists might result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with some sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation and effects such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia. Seizures or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation manifested by skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Thiothixene: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics, such as thiothixene, and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that there are potentially serious drug interactions between tipranavir and prescription amphetamine therapy or illicit amphetamine use. The risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of potent CYP2D6 inhibitors such as tipranavir. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Torsemide: (Minor) Amphetamine and Dextroamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
traMADol: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering amphetamines with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tramadol. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Further study is needed to fully elucidate the severity and frequency of adverse effects that may occur from concomitant administration of amphetamines and tramadol. Patients receiving tramadol and an amphetamine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and during dosage increases. The amphetamine and tramadol should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. In addition, the risk of seizures from the use of tramadol may be increased with concomitant use of CNS stimulants that may induce seizures, including the amphetamines. Extreme caution and close clinical monitoring is recommended if these agents must be used together.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering amphetamines with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tramadol. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Further study is needed to fully elucidate the severity and frequency of adverse effects that may occur from concomitant administration of amphetamines and tramadol. Patients receiving tramadol and an amphetamine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and during dosage increases. The amphetamine and tramadol should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. In addition, the risk of seizures from the use of tramadol may be increased with concomitant use of CNS stimulants that may induce seizures, including the amphetamines. Extreme caution and close clinical monitoring is recommended if these agents must be used together.
Trandolapril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
traZODone: (Moderate) Coadministration of trazodone and amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome has been reported with both drugs when taken alone, but especially when coadministered with other serotonergic agents. The MAOI activity of amphetamines may also be of concern with trazodone. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Serotonergic agents should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Treprostinil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with treprostinil. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including treprostinil. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Triamterene: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Tryptophan, 5-Hydroxytryptophan: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering amphetamines with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tryptophan. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Further study is needed to fully elucidate the severity and frequency of adverse effects that may occur from concomitant administration of amphetamines and tryptophan. Patients receiving tryptophan and an amphetamine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and during dosage increases. The amphetamine and tryptophan should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Valsartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Verapamil: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vilazodone. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of amphetamines and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may increase the exposure of amphetamines and risk of toxicity.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of amphetamines and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may increase the exposure of amphetamines and risk of toxicity.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of amphetamines and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may increase the exposure of amphetamines and risk of toxicity.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vortioxetine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Serotonin syndrome has been reported during the combined use of amphetamine stimulants and other medications with serotonergic properties. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during postmarketing use of ziprasidone; however, a causal relationship has not been established.
ZOLMitriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary.


Adverse Reaction
emotional lability, euphoria, headache, insomnia, irritability, restlessness, supranormalization


Central nervous system, mood, and behavioral side effects of the amphetamines are frequent but usually mild to moderate in severity in patients at normally prescribed dosages. Some side effects may be more frequent or severe within the initial days of therapy and then remit with continued use. Insomnia is common during the initiation of amphetamines but will typically resolve within a few days of use, provided the dosage is appropriate and doses are not administered within 6 hours of bedtime, particularly extended-release formulations. Avoidance of exercising late in the day, limiting the intake of caffeinated beverages, and setting regular bedtime schedules may also limit sleep disruption. Mild euphoria and restlessness may be noted in the first weeks of treatment. Continued interrupted sleep patterns may indicate a need for dosage reduction. Other common side effects that occur include headache, irritability, tearfulness or sadness (emotional lability), or dullness. Emotional lability was reported in 2% to 4% of adult patients receiving amphetamine ER in clinical trials. Headache may respond to dosage reduction. In pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age receiving amphetamine sulfate (Evekeo), irritability (14%), headache (13%), emotional lability (3% to 9%), and insomnia (4% to 10%) were reported; discontinuation of the product was reported due to irritability (n = 3), initial insomnia (n = 1), and emotional lability (n = 1). Most side effects disappear within a few weeks of continued amphetamine use. Children treated for ADHD who become overly preoccupied with a task (over-focused or inflexible) or are described as 'zombie-like' are considered to exhibit supranormalization; these behaviors typically require amphetamine dosage reduction.


agitation, anxiety, depression, dysphemia, dysphoria, formication, hallucinations, hostility, mania, paresthesias, psychosis, suicidal ideation, teeth grinding (bruxism)


Stimulant medications, such as amphetamine, can cause psychotic or manic symptoms (i.e., hallucinations, delusional thinking, or mania) in patients without a prior history of psychosis or mania. These symptoms occurred in approximately 0.1% of patients treated with stimulants (methylphenidate or amphetamine at usual doses) compared to 0% in placebo-treated patients in a pooled analysis of short-term, placebo-controlled studies. In a cohort study assessing 221,846 adolescents and young adults who received a prescription for a stimulant for ADHD, new-onset psychosis occurred in approximately 1 in 660 patients. The percentage of patients who had a psychotic episode was 0.1% in patients receiving methylphenidate compared to 0.21% in patients receiving amphetamine (hazard ratio with amphetamine use, 1.65; 95% CI 1.31 to 2.09). The median time from when the stimulant was dispensed to the psychotic episode was 128 days. Anxiety is one of the common adverse effects experienced by adults taking amphetamines. In addition, aggression, agitation, hostility, anger, suicidal ideation or behaviors, logorrhea, dysphoria, depression, and paresthesias (including formication) have been reported during the use of medications for ADHD. Monitoring pediatric patients for emergence or worsening of aggression, anger, or hostility is recommended during initiation of a stimulant. Dermatilomania (skin picking disorder), teeth grinding (bruxism), and teeth clenching have also been reported with amphetamine use. The following adverse reactions were reported by 2% to 4% of adult patients receiving amphetamine ER (Dyanavel XR): somnolence, speech disorder (e.g., stuttering or dysphemia, excessive speech), and twitching. Due to its toxic effects in overdose, amphetamine should only be used in those with major depression or suicidal ideation when absolutely necessary. Abrupt discontinuation of amphetamines after chronic administration may unmask severe depression, suicidal ideation, anxiety, agoraphobia, dysphoria, psychomotor agitation, or symptoms of overactive behaviors.


dyskinesia, tics, Tourette's syndrome


Dyskinesia has been reported during postmarketing use of CNS stimulants, including amphetamines. The onset or exacerbation of motor and verbal tics has also been reported. Individuals should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of dyskinesias, tics or Tourette syndrome; consider dose reduction or discontinuation of treatment if clinically indicated.


seizures


Stimulant medications have the potential to lower the seizure threshold in patients with a prior history of seizures, in patients with a history of EEG abnormalities without a history of seizures, and rarely, in patients without a seizure history or EEG abnormalities. Discontinue stimulant medications if seizures develop. Seizures may be associated with amphetamine toxicity; evaluate patients presenting with convulsions for other signs and symptoms of overdose.


growth inhibition


Data are inadequate to determine whether chronic use of stimulants, such as amphetamine, causes long-term growth inhibition. Although data are limited, available studies do not indicate that stimulant use compromises the attainment of normal adult height and weight in most children. Practitioners should monitor height and weight parameters relative to age at treatment initiation and periodically thereafter (at minimum yearly). Patients who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted. In a 24-month follow-up, the MultiModal Treatment Study showed a deceleration of growth of roughly 1 cm per year with stimulant use. In general, growth remained in the normal curve for most children, except those in the lowest percentiles of height for age. Data obtained on the effects of stimulants on growth suppression in children 7 to 10 years of age suggested that regularly medicated children (7 days/week throughout the year) had a temporary average slowing in growth of 2 cm in height and 2.7 kg in weight over 3 years. Reduction of annual growth rate was maximal in the first year, decreased in the second year, and absent in the third year of treatment; however, no compensatory growth rebound effects were found while on stimulant therapy. Proposed mechanisms of growth inhibition include the suppression of appetite or an alteration in growth hormone secretion. Growth rebound has been observed after stimulant discontinuation and some experts recommend the use of drug holidays to allow growth to 'catch-up'. However, drug holidays are typically reserved for children with well-controlled attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms and are of unproved value in limiting growth suppression.


anorexia, weight loss


Anorexia (lack or loss of appetite, 4% or more) is one of the most common adverse reactions associated with stimulant use. In pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age receiving amphetamine sulfate (Evekeo), anorexia (4% to 28%) was reported. Weight loss is a dose-related adverse reaction associated with stimulant use and is of particular concern in growing children and adolescents when amphetamine is not being used for its anorectic effect. Eating small, frequent meals or snacks may help limit appetite problems. Monitor weight and growth in children during treatment with stimulants; patients who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted. In adults, weight loss may occur initially, but only rarely is sustained over time, and amphetamines are not recommended for the treatment or management options for weight loss beyond short-term use.


abdominal pain, bowel ischemia, bowel necrosis, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia


Gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions are often associated with amphetamine use. Abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting are common in children, while xerostomia and diarrhea are more often reported in adults. During clinical trials, upper abdominal pain was reported in 3.8% of pediatric patients receiving amphetamine ER products (Dyanavel XR). In pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age receiving amphetamine sulfate (Evekeo), abdominal pain (3% to 15%), nausea (6%), vomiting (6%), and xerostomia (6%) were reported. Other GI disturbances reported with stimulant use include dyspepsia, dysgeusia, and constipation. Persistent or excessive GI symptoms may lead to appetite changes and weight loss. An FDA analysis reported children younger than 6 years receiving extended-release stimulants have higher medication exposure and significant weight loss (at least 10% decrease) compared to older children on the same dose. Due to these findings, the benefits may not outweigh the risks in this age group. Complaints of xerostomia or dysgeusia may be limited by sucking sugarless hard candy, crushed ice, and drinking plenty of water or other fluids. Excessive abdominal cramping, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea may represent excessive dosage and toxicity. Intestinal and bowel ischemia has been reported during postmarketing use. Cases of intestinal necrosis (bowel necrosis), including some deaths, have been reported with concomitant use of sodium polystyrene sulfonate and sorbitol, two of the inactive ingredients in the amphetamine extended-release oral suspension (Adzenys ER).


hypertension


In therapeutic doses, amphetamines may cause increases in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and exacerbate hypertension. In general, stimulant medications increase blood pressure by an average of 2 to 4 mmHg, but some patients may experience significantly higher increases. Amphetamine tablets are contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe hypertension, and all formulations should be used with caution, even in patients with mild hypertension. Obtain blood pressure measurements at baseline, after dosage increases, and periodically throughout stimulant therapy.


arrhythmia exacerbation, bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, chest pain (unspecified), dizziness, myocardial infarction, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, stroke, syncope


Cardiovascular events, including sudden death, have been associated with stimulant use in children, adolescent, and adult patients with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems. Cardiovascular effects reported during stimulant use range in severity from mild to life-threatening and include palpitations, tachycardia, myocardial infarction (reported in adults), and stroke (reported in adults). Dizziness (estimated incidence 2 to 7%), palpitations, or sinus tachycardia (approximately 6%) may occur; dizziness and fast heart beat are relatively common in adults. In pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age receiving amphetamine sulfate (Evekeo), tachycardia was reported in 9% of patients. In general, stimulant medications increase heart rate by an average of 3 to 6 bpm; however, some patients may experience higher increases. Reflex bradycardia, which is not usually clinically significant, may occur. Isolated reports of cardiomyopathy have been associated with chronic amphetamine administration. Patients who develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain (unspecified), unexplained syncope, or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease should undergo a prompt cardiac evaluation. Severe cardiac adverse reactions (e.g., arrhythmia or arrhythmia exacerbation, severe hypertension or low blood pressure) may be associated with amphetamine toxicity; evaluate patients carefully who present with cardiac symptoms for possible overdose. Use amphetamine with caution in patients with conditions that would be expected to worsen by an increase in heart rate. Stimulant products generally should not be used in children, adolescents, or adults with known structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart conditions due to cardiac risks. Obtain pulse measurements at baseline, after dosage increases, and periodically throughout stimulant therapy in any treated patient.


blurred vision, mydriasis, visual impairment


Visual impairment such as blurred vision and mydriasis have been reported with amphetamine use. Patients are encouraged to report any unusual changes in vision promptly for examination and evaluation.


alopecia, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Dermatologic and allergic reactions to amphetamines are rare, however serious events such as angioedema, anaphylactoid reactions, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis have all been reported with the use of amphetamine or amphetamine derivatives. Urticaria, rash, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, and alopecia have also been reported during the administration of amphetamines.  One pediatric patient aged 6 to 12 years discontinued amphetamine sulfate (Evekeo) during clinical trials due to rash.


peripheral vasoconstriction, skin ulcer


Stimulants are associated with peripheral vasculopathy. Effects of peripheral vasoconstriction, including Raynaud's phenomenon, were observed in postmarketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment. Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild and generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug. However, very rare sequelae include digital skin ulcer and/or soft tissue breakdown. Carefully monitor for digital changes during treatment with stimulant medications. Further clinical evaluation (e.g., rheumatology referral) may be appropriate for certain patients.


dysmenorrhea, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, libido increase, priapism


Amphetamines have been reported to occasionally cause impotence (erectile dysfunction) or changes in sexual desire (libido increase or libido decrease). The following side effects were reported by 2% to 4% of adult patients receiving amphetamine ER during clinical trials with a higher incidence vs. placebo: libido decrease, dysmenorrhea, and impotence (erectile dysfunction). Frequent or prolonged erections and priapism have been reported with postmarketing use of stimulant medications. Priapism should be promptly reported, as immediate diagnosis and treatment are essential to avoid tissue damage. Priapism can occur in males of any age; younger males, particularly those who have not reached puberty, may not recognize the problem or may be embarrassed to tell anyone if it occurs. Reported cases of priapism have occurred after a period of time on stimulant therapy and often after a dose increase. Priapism has also been reported during periods of drug withdrawal (e.g., drug holidays or discontinuation). Although priapism has been associated with both methylphenidate and amphetamine products during postmarketing use, causality in relation to the amphetamine products is uncertain. Use caution when considering changing male patients from stimulant to non-stimulant medications; atomoxetine is also associated with priapism in young males and appears to carry a higher risk of the condition compared to stimulant medications.


asthenia, drowsiness, dyspnea, epistaxis, fatigue, fever, infection, rhinitis


Additional adverse effects reported during adult clinical trials of amphetamine mixed salts (i.e., Adderall XR) included asthenia (6%), infection (2 to 4%) and urinary tract infection (5%), tooth disorder (tooth infection/teeth clenching), drowsiness, and dyspnea. In pediatric patients, fever (5%), infection (4%), drowsiness (2% to 4%), asthenia (2% to 4%), fatigue (2% to 10%), and accidental injury (2% to 4%) were reported in various clinical trials with various amphetamine dosage forms. Epistaxis (3.8%) and allergic rhinitis (3.8%) were among the most common adverse effects reported during pediatric studies of an amphetamine extended-release product (Dyanavel XR).


confusion, delirium, hyperreflexia, hyperthermia, hypotension, paranoia, renal failure (unspecified), rhabdomyolysis, tachypnea, tremor


Toxic effects of amphetamines are more variable in children than in adults and appear to occur over a wide dosage range; toxic symptoms may occur idiosyncratically at low doses. Rhabdomyolysis has been associated with the use of stimulants used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. Stimulant-induced rhabdomyolysis is most often associated with sympathomimetic toxicity. Practitioners should be alert to the signs of excessive dosages or overdose which may include: anxiety, agitation, confusion, delirium, hostility, psychosis, hallucinations, paranoia, panic, abdominal cramping, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hyperhidrosis, flushing or pallor, hyperthermia, labile blood pressure (hypotension or hypertension) and heart rate, hyperreflexia, restlessness, sinus tachycardia, tachypnea, or tremor. Fatigue and depression usually follow central nervous system stimulation. Minor manifestation of these symptoms during prescription use indicates a need for dosage reduction or discontinuation. Severe manifestations of amphetamine overdose include cardiac arrhythmias, circulatory collapse, rhabdomyolysis, and acute renal failure (unspecified). Fatal poisoning is usually preceded by seizures and coma.  


serotonin syndrome


Serotonin syndrome may occur when amphetamines are used in combination with other drugs that enhance serotonin activity. Symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, coma), gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), and seizures. If such symptoms emerge, discontinue amphetamine and any concomitant serotonergic agent immediately and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment. Amphetamines stimulate the release of serotonin (5-HT) and may act as direct agonists on central serotonin receptors. Thus, amphetamines are both direct and indirect stimulants of serotonin activity.


physiological dependence, psychological dependence, tolerance, withdrawal


Psychological dependence, physiological dependence, and tolerance may occur with amphetamine therapy. Abrupt discontinuation or a significant dose reduction of CNS stimulants after prolonged use may produce withdrawal symptoms that include dysphoria, depression, fatigue, vivid and unpleasant dreams, insomnia or hypersomnia, increased appetite, and psychomotor retardation or agitation. Signs and symptoms of chronic amphetamine abuse include severe dermatoses, marked insomnia, irritability, hyperactivity, personality changes, and psychosis with features indiscriminate from schizophrenia.


laboratory test interference


Amphetamines can cause a significant elevation in plasma corticosteroid levels; this increase is greatest in the evening. Amphetamines may cause laboratory test interference with urinary steroid determinations. These effects may need to be considered during testing.  


Description

Amphetamine sulfate is an orally administered central nervous system (CNS) stimulant used primarily to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD); however, the immediate-release tablet also carries indications for narcolepsy and exogenous obesity. Stimulants, such as amphetamine, are highly effective in the treatment of ADHD and are considered first-line therapy. Amphetamine- and methylphenidate-containing products are considered equally effective in the treatment of ADHD; patients who do not respond to one may respond to the other. The most common adverse effects associated with amphetamine use include anorexia, abdominal pain, irritability, restlessness, insomnia, emotional lability, and tachycardia. Stimulants can induce or exacerbate psychiatric symptoms and should be used with caution in patients with a history of mania, psychosis, or substance abuse. Due to the possibility of new or worsening adverse psychiatric events (e.g., psychosis, aggression), close monitoring is recommended in patients with pre-existing psychosis or bipolar disorder. Stimulants have also been associated with sudden death in patients with structural cardiac abnormalities; patients with structural heart defects, cardiomyopathy, or heart-rhythm disturbances may be at risk for adverse cardiac events. The American Heart Association recommends careful screening of all children and adolescents prior to initiating pharmacologic therapy for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), including a detailed patient and family history and physical examination. Amphetamines are not agents of choice for weight loss in obese patients. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinology guidelines emphasize that obesity and adiposity-based chronic disease often require long-term management and care. Because amphetamine is indicated only for short-term use and is not recommended for long-term therapy, it is not supported as a first-line pharmacotherapy option for chronic obesity management. Amphetamine was initially FDA-approved in 1976.

Mechanism Of Action

Amphetamines are non-catecholamine sympathomimetic agents that stimulate the release of some biogenic amines (e.g., dopamine, norepinephrine) from storage sites in the nerve terminal and block the reuptake of these amines into the presynaptic neuron thereby increasing their availability in the extra-neuronal space. Amphetamines are relatively weak serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitors. Finally, amphetamines may act as a direct agonist on central 5-HT receptors. Thus, amphetamines are both direct and indirect stimulants. It is thought that the release of dopamine is responsible for the reinforcing properties of amphetamines. Amphetamines may also inhibit monoamine oxidase (MAO), but this is a minor action.
 
Peripheral actions: In the periphery, the actions of amphetamines are believed to occur through release of norepinephrine from the adrenergic nerve terminals and by a direct stimulant action on alpha- and beta-receptors. Amphetamines increase systolic and diastolic blood pressure and cause respiratory stimulation and weak bronchodilation. Heart rate typically increases slightly with normal therapeutic doses of stimulants (about 3 to 6 bpm); however, a reflexive decrease in heart rate in response to increased blood pressure can also occur. Amphetamine is a racemic mixture of l-amphetamine and d-amphetamine. The l-isomer is more potent than the d-isomer in cardiovascular activity, but much less potent in causing CNS excitatory effects. At high doses, such as in overdoses, amphetamine and its derivatives can cause significant hypertension, tachycardia, arrhythmias, and other serious complications. Amphetamines may produce mydriasis and contraction of the bladder sphincter.
 
Actions in ADHD: There is no conclusive evidence for the mechanism(s) of action of amphetamines on the mental and behavioral conditions in ADHD. Improved attention spans, decreased distractibility, increased ability to follow directions or complete tasks, and decreased impulsivity and aggression have been noted when stimulants are prescribed for the treatment of ADHD.
 
Anorectic actions: The action of the amphetamines in treating obesity may result from mechanisms besides appetite suppression at the lateral hypothalamic feeding center. It has been suggested that amphetamines decrease olfactory acuity, which may contribute to their anorexic properties. Amphetamines do not seem to alter the basal metabolic rate or nitrogen excretion. It is unknown if other CNS actions or metabolic effects may be involved in the promotion of weight loss with amphetamines. Amphetamine is less effective than dextro-amphetamine as an appetite suppressant.

Pharmacokinetics

Amphetamine is available as an oral formulation. Tissue redistribution of amphetamines is extensive and high lipid solubility leads to increased concentrations relative to serum liver, kidneys, and lungs. This results in large volumes of distribution. Cerebrospinal fluid concentrations are about 80% of plasma concentrations at steady state. Amphetamine is reported to be oxidized at the 4 position of the benzene ring to form 4-hydroxyamphetamine, or on the side chain alpha- or beta- carbons to form alpha-hydroxy-amphetamine or norephedrine, respectively. Norephedrine and 4-hydroxy-amphetamine are both active and each is subsequently oxidized to form 4-hydroxy-norephedrine. Alpha-hydroxy-amphetamine undergoes deamination to form phenylacetone, which ultimately forms benzoic acid and its glucuronide and the glycine conjugate hippuric acid. The formation of 4-hydroxy-amphetamine is known to involve CYP2D6. Amphetamine is a racemic compound (l-amphetamine and d-amphetamine). The mean elimination half-life ranges from 9.77 to 11 hours for d-amphetamine and 11.5 to 13.8 hours for l-amphetamine.
 
Amphetamines and their metabolites are excreted in the urine. Recovery of amphetamine in the urine is highly dependent on pH and urine flow rates. The urinary elimination of amphetamines may be affected by agents that acidify or alkalinize the urinary fluids. Alkaline urine results in less ionization and reduced renal elimination of amphetamine. Conversely, acidification of the urine speeds amphetamine elimination. Urinary recovery of amphetamine has been reported to range from 1% to 75% depending on urinary pH. With normal urine pH, approximately 30% to 40% of the administered dose is recoverable in urine as amphetamine and 50% as alpha-hydroxy-amphetamine (inactive metabolite).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, 1A2, 3A4
Minor inhibition of CYP2D6 by amphetamine and minor inhibition of CYP1A2, 2D6, and 3A4 by 1 or more metabolites has been observed in vitro. CYP2D6 inhibitors may increase exposure to amphetamine. Since CYP2D6 is genetically polymorphic, variations in amphetamine metabolism are a possibility.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Amphetamines have good oral bioavailability.
Immediate-release tablets: Amphetamine tablets are easily absorbed from the GI tract following oral administration. In one clinical trial of amphetamine tablets for the treatment of ADHD in children 6 to 12 years of age, the onset of effect occurred 45 minutes post-dose, and the greatest effect was observed at 4 hours post-dose. The drug continued to demonstrate efficacy at 10 hours post-dose, which was the last time point measured. Amphetamine tablets may be administered with or without food.
Immediate-release orally disintegrating tablets (ODT): Amphetamine demonstrates linear pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 5 to 40 mg. In a crossover study of healthy patients, exposures (Cmax and AUC) to d- and l-amphetamine were comparable to that after administration of an equal dose of immediate-release amphetamine tablets. Median Tmax of d- and l-amphetamine was reached at approximately 3.5 (2 to 8) hours and 3 (1 to 6 hours) hours after administration without water and with water, respectively. Administration of food (a high-fat meal) does not affect the observed AUC and Cmax of d- and l-amphetamine after single-dose oral administration of amphetamine ODT tablets. Median Tmax (range) increased from 2.5 (1.5 to 6) hours to 4.5 (2.5 to 8) hours when administered without food compared to with food. The average half-life of d- and l-amphetamine was 10 and 11.7 hours, respectively, in healthy adult volunteers.
Extended-release suspensions: Amphetamine extended-release suspension is well absorbed after oral administration. In trials of healthy adults who received a single 18.8 mg dose of the oral suspension, the Tmax was 4 (range: 2 to 7) hours and the plasma terminal elimination half-life was approximately 11 to 12 hours and 14 to 15 hours for d-amphetamine and l-amphetamine, respectively. A high-fat meal delayed the Tmax by approximately 1 hour but did not significantly affect the extent of absorption. An in vitro dissolution study using the extended-release suspension showed alcohol-induced dose dumping potential in the presence of 40% alcohol. Dose dumping was not observed in the presence of lower alcohol concentrations. The relative bioavailability of extended-release suspension compared to an equal dose of mixed amphetamine salts tablets is 106% for d-amphetamine and 111% for l-amphetamine.
Extended-release tablets: Amphetamine extended-release (ER) tablets are well absorbed after oral administration. In trials of healthy adults who received a single 20 mg dose of the ER tablet, the Tmax was 5 (range: 2 to 9) hours and the plasma terminal elimination half-life was 13.5 hours and 17.3 hours for d-amphetamine and l-amphetamine, respectively. A high-fat meal did not delay the median Tmax or significantly affect the extent of absorption. An in vitro dissolution study using the ER tablet showed no alcohol-induced dose dumping potential in the presence of 40% alcohol or in the presence of lower alcohol concentrations. The relative bioavailability of ER tablets compared to an equal dose of ER oral suspension is 105% for d-amphetamine and 106% for l-amphetamine.
Extended-release orally disintegrating tablets (ODT): In a trial of 40 healthy adults who received a single 18.8 mg dose of amphetamine extended-release ODT (fasting conditions), mean peak plasma concentrations of d-amphetamine (44.9 ng/mL) and l-amphetamine (14.5 ng/mL) were achieved approximately 5 hours after dosing and were similar to those achieved with 30 mg ER mixed amphetamine salts capsules (i.e., Adderall XR). AUC was 876.9 ng/mL x hour and half-life was approximately 11 hours. Administration with food did not affect the extent of absorption but resulted in a 19% reduction in Cmax (44.9 to 36.3 ng/mL) and prolonged the median Tmax by approximately 2 hours. These changes were not considered to be clinically significant. An in vitro study using the extended-release ODT showed alcohol-induced dose dumping potential in the presence of 40% alcohol. Dose dumping was not observed in the presence of lower alcohol concentrations.

Hepatic Impairment

Hepatic dysfunction has the potential to inhibit the elimination of amphetamine and result in prolonged exposures.

Renal Impairment

Renal dysfunction has the potential to inhibit the elimination of amphetamine and result in prolonged exposures. Although no studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of extended-release amphetamine administration, urinary recovery of amphetamine has been reported to range from 1% to 75%, depending on urinary pH, with the remaining dose hepatically metabolized.

Pediatrics

Children and Adolescents 6 years and older
Age and body weight are primary determinants of differences in the pharmacokinetics of amphetamine across the age range. Systemic exposure measured by AUC and Cmax decrease with increased body weight, while Vd, clearance, and elimination half-life increase with increased body weight. Upon dose normalization on a mg/kg basis, pediatric patients show 30% less systemic exposure compared to adults. In addition, when adjusted for body weight, children exhibit a higher clearance than adolescents and adults. Under normal conditions, the plasma half-life of amphetamine is roughly 9 to 11 hours in children 6 to 12 years, 11 to 14 hours in adolescents, and 10 to 13 hours in adults. The plasma terminal elimination half-life of the extended-release suspension was approximately 10 to 13 hours and 12 to 15 hours for d-amphetamine and l-amphetamine, respectively, in children 6 to 12 years of age. Comparatively, the plasma terminal half-life was 11 to 12 hours and 14 to 15 hours for d-amphetamine and l-amphetamine, respectively, in healthy adult patients. Tmax was similar in both groups.

Geriatric

The extended-release ODT formulation has not been studied in geriatric adults.

Gender Differences

Body weight is the primary determinant of apparent differences in the pharmacokinetics of amphetamine. Systemic exposure measured by AUC and Cmax decrease with increased body weight, while Vd, clearance, and elimination half-life increase with increased body weight. Due to the higher dose administered to women on a mg/kg body weight basis, systemic exposure to amphetamine was 20% to 30% higher in women (n = 20) compared to men (n = 20) during controlled trials; these differences diminished when Cmax and AUC were normalized by dose (mg/kg).

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


May administer with or without food.


Oral Solid Formulations

Immediate-release tablets
Administer the first dose of the day upon awakening; additional doses may be given at 4 to 6 hour intervals.
Late evening doses may result in insomnia; the last dose of the day should be administered at least 6 hours before bedtime to avoid sleep interference.
When used as an anorectic, administer the dose 30 to 60 minutes before meals.
 
Immediate-release oral disintegrating tablets (ODT) (e.g., Evekeo ODT)
Administer once daily in the morning. May give with or without food or liquid.
With dry hands, open the blister. Remove the tablet by pushing it through foil backing just prior to dosing. Do not store tablet for future use.
Place tablet on the patient's tongue and allow to dissolve without chewing or crushing. Once dissolved, the patient may swallow with saliva.
 
Extended-release tablets (e.g., Dyanavel XR)
Administer once daily in the morning.
May be chewed or swallowed whole.
5 mg tablet is scored and may be divided into equal halves (2.5 mg) at the score line.
 
Extended-release oral disintegrating tablets (ODT) (e.g., Adzenys XR-ODT)
Administer once daily in the morning.
Do NOT attempt to push ODT tablets through foil backing. With dry hands, bend the blister where indicated and peel back the foil to remove the tablet just prior to dosing.
Place tablet on the patient's tongue and allow to dissolve without chewing or crushing. Once dissolved, the patient may swallow with saliva.


Oral Liquid Formulations

Extended-release oral suspension
Administer once daily in the morning.
Shake well prior to each administration.
Measure dose with an oral syringe or calibrated measuring device.
Do not add to food or mix with other liquids before consuming.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

12.5 mg/day PO (Adzenys XR products); 20 mg/day PO (Dyanavel XR); 60 mg/day PO (immediate-release products).

Geriatric

12.5 mg/day PO (Adzenys XR products); 60 mg/day PO (immediate-release products).

Adolescents

12.5 mg/day PO (Adzenys XR products); 20 mg/day PO (Dyanavel XR); 40 mg/day PO (immediate-release products).

Children

6 to 12 years: 18.8 mg/day PO (Adzenys XR products); 20 mg/day PO (Dyanavel XR); 40 mg/day PO (immediate-release products).
3 to 5 years: 40 mg/day PO for Evekeo; safety and efficacy have not been established for Evekeo ODT or extended-release formulations.
1 to 2 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Adderall 10mg Tablet

Adderall 12.5mg Tablet

Adderall 12.5mg Tablet

Adderall 15mg Tablet

Adderall 20mg Tablet

Adderall 30mg Tablet

Adderall 5mg Tablet

Adderall 7.5mg Tablet

Adderall XR 20mg Extended-Release Capsule

Adderall XR 25mg Extended-Release Capsule

Adderall XR 30mg Extended-Release Capsule

Adderall XR 5mg Extended-Release Capsule

Adzenys XR-ODT 12.5mg Extended-Release Orally Disintegrating Tablet

Adzenys XR-ODT 15.7mg Extended-Release Orally Disintegrating Tablet

Adzenys XR-ODT 18.8mg Extended-Release Orally Disintegrating Tablet

Adzenys XR-ODT 3.1mg Extended-Release Orally Disintegrating Tablet

Adzenys XR-ODT 6.3mg Extended-Release Orally Disintegrating Tablet

Adzenys XR-ODT 9.4mg Extended-Release Orally Disintegrating Tablet

Amphetamine 1.25mg/1mL Oral suspension, extended release

Amphetamine 12.5mg Oral disintegrating tablet, delayed release

Amphetamine 15.7mg Oral disintegrating tablet, delayed release

Amphetamine 18.8mg Oral disintegrating tablet, delayed release

Amphetamine 3.1mg Oral disintegrating tablet, delayed release

Amphetamine 6.3mg Oral disintegrating tablet, delayed release

Amphetamine 9.4mg Oral disintegrating tablet, delayed release

Amphetamine Aspartate 1.25mg, Amphetamine Sulfate 1.25mg, Dextroamphetamine Saccharate 1.25mg, Dextroamphetamine Sulfate 1.25mg Oral capsule, biphasic release

Amphetamine Aspartate 6.25mg, Amphetamine Sulfate 6.25mg, Dextroamphetamine Saccharate 6.25mg, Dextroamphetamine Sulfate 6.25mg Oral capsule, biphasic release

Amphetamine Aspartate 7.5mg, Amphetamine Sulfate 7.5mg, Dextroamphetamine Saccharate 7.5mg, Dextroamphetamine Sulfate 7.5mg Oral capsule, biphasic release

Amphetamine Salts Oral capsule, biphasic release

Amphetamine Salts Oral capsule, triphasic release

Amphetamine Salts Oral capsule, triphasic release

Amphetamine Salts Oral capsule, triphasic release

Amphetamine Salts Oral capsule, triphasic release

Amphetamine Salts Oral tablet

Amphetamine Salts Oral tablet

Amphetamine Salts Oral tablet

Amphetamine Salts Oral tablet

Amphetamine Salts Oral tablet

Amphetamine Salts Oral tablet

Amphetamine Salts Oral tablet

Amphetamine Sulfate 10mg Oral tablet

Amphetamine Sulfate 5mg Oral tablet

Dyanavel XR 10mg Extended-Release Tablet

Dyanavel XR 15mg Extended-Release Tablet

Dyanavel XR 2.5mg/mL Extended-Release Suspension

Dyanavel XR 2.5mg/mL Extended-Release Suspension

Dyanavel XR 20mg Extended-Release Tablet

Dyanavel XR 5mg Extended-Release Tablet

Evekeo 10mg Tablet

Evekeo 5mg Tablet

Mydayis 12.5mg Extended-Release Capsule

Mydayis 25mg Extended-Release Capsule

Mydayis 37.5mg Extended-Release Capsule

Mydayis 50mg Extended-Release Capsule

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Use with caution; hepatic dysfunction has the potential to inhibit the elimination of amphetamine and result in prolonged exposures. However, specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available.

Renal Impairment

Use with caution; renal dysfunction has the potential to inhibit the elimination of amphetamine and result in prolonged exposures. However, specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available.

© 2026 Elsevier