=== Tradipitant (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5647)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Tradipitant is a substance P/neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of vomiting induced by motion.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 85 mg or 170 mg PO as a single dose/24 hours.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): drowsiness, fatigue, headache

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Tradipitant may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for driving or operating machinery or other hazardous tasks due to somnolence and fatigue.

Brand Names
  - NEREUS

Dosage Forms
  - NEREUS 85mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        85 mg or 170 mg PO as a single dose, given 60 minutes prior to an event expected to cause vomiting due to motion. Use the lowest effective dose. Max: 85 mg or 170 mg as a single dose per 24 hours. The safety of tradipitant beyond 90 doses has not been studied.
    Heading
    For the prevention of vomiting due to motion sickness

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Tradipitant may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for driving or operating machinery or other hazardous tasks due to somnolence and fatigue. Advise individuals to use caution in activities requiring coordination and concentration. Avoid concomitant use of other medications that cause central nervous system depression and other medications that increase this effect. If concomitant use is unavoidable, warn individuals against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Avoid the use of tradipitant in people with mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, and hepatic failure). Tradipitant is extensively metabolized and has not been studied in individuals with any degree of hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Tradipitant has not been studied in people with renal failure or severe renal impairment (eGFR 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or less). Avoid the use of tradipitant in these individuals.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the use of tradipitant during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In animal studies, no adverse effects were observed with oral administration of tradipitant at 1.4 to 3.3 times the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD).
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use tradipitant with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of tradipitant or its metabolites in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Tradipitant is present in the milk of lactating rats. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal condition. Monitor the breastfed child for somnolence if tradipitant is administered to a lactating individual.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the use of tradipitant during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In animal studies, no adverse effects were observed with oral administration of tradipitant at 1.4 to 3.3 times the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD).
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use tradipitant with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of tradipitant or its metabolites in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Tradipitant is present in the milk of lactating rats. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal condition. Monitor the breastfed child for somnolence if tradipitant is administered to a lactating individual.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with adagrasib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
ALFentanil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a tricyclic antidepressant, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ceritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with chloramphenicol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a tricyclic antidepressant, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a tricyclic antidepressant, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
CNS Depressant Medications (selected non-opioid): (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a tricyclic antidepressant, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a tricyclic antidepressant, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
fentaNYL: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Ganaxolone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with idelalisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a tricyclic antidepressant, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with itraconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Levorphanol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lonafarnib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Meperidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Methadone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mifepristone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Molindone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Morphine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with nefazodone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with nelfinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a tricyclic antidepressant, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Oliceridine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Opiate Agonists: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a tricyclic antidepressant, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Pimavanserin: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with posaconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Primidone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Propofol: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a tricyclic antidepressant, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with relacorilant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Remifentanil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Rotigotine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with saquinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Sodium Oxybate: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
SUFentanil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Tapentadol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with tipranavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a tricyclic antidepressant, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a tricyclic antidepressant, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with tucatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voriconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
Zuranolone: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as zuranolone, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    drowsiness, fatigue, headache
    General Information
    Somnolence or drowsiness (6%; 12%), headache (7%; 10%), and fatigue (6%; 8%) were reported in adults receiving a single 85 mg or 170 mg oral dose of tradipitant, respectively, approximately 60 minutes prior to a boat trip during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Tradipitant is a substance P/neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of vomiting induced by motion. In clinical trials, a single dose of tradipitant (85 mg or 170 mg) significantly reduced the risk of vomiting during motion exposure (boat trip) compared to placebo. The incidence of vomiting in the tradipitant group was 10% to 20% vs. 38% to 44% in the placebo group. The worst nausea scores did not differ significantly from placebo. The most common adverse drug reactions are somnolence, headache, and fatigue. Tradipitant was FDA-approved in December 2025.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Tradipitant is a selective, high-affinity antagonist of human substance P/neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptors. Tradipitant does not have affinity for NK-2, NK-3, serotonin (5-HT3), dopamine (D2), cholinergic, or histamine (H1) receptors. Human positron emission tomography (PET) studies with tradipitant have shown that tradipitant crosses the blood-brain barrier and occupies brain NK-1 receptors. The exact mechanism by which tradipitant exerts its therapeutic effect is not fully established. Tradipitant has been shown in animal models to inhibit drug-induced emesis.
Pharmacodynamics
Tradipitant shows high affinity for the NK-1 receptor with a Ki of 0.062 +/- 0.01 nanomolar (nM) and inhibits substance P induced intracellular calcium mobilization with a Kb of 0.095 +/- 0.025 nM. The major metabolites of tradipitant (M2, M3, M4, and M8) show a similar degree of binding at the NK-1 receptor. A clinical study using PET imaging demonstrated a dose- and concentration-dependent increase in frontal cortex NK-1 receptor occupancy of tradipitant. After multiple administrations of 100 mg of tradipitant, the maximum receptor occupancy was 93%.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The absolute oral bioavailability of tradipitant has not been studied in humans. In healthy subjects under fasting conditions following a single tradipitant 85 mg dose, the geometric Cmax was 84.7 nanograms/mL, the AUC was 1,839 nanograms x hour/mL, and the median Tmax was 2 hours. Following a single tradipitant 170 mg dose under fasting conditions, the geometric mean Cmax was 112 nanograms/mL, the AUC was 3,526 nanograms x hour/mL, and the median Tmax was 1.5 hours. When a tradipitant 85 mg dose was administered with high-fat meal (800 to 1, 000 calories, 50% fat), the Cmax and AUC increased by 4.7-fold and 2.4-fold, respectively, and the Tmax was delayed by 2 hours. After administration of tradipitant 170 mg dose with a high-fat meal, the Cmax and the AUC increased by approximately 6.9-fold and 2.9-fold, respectively, and the Tmax was delayed by 2.5 hours.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The impact of mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A to C) on the pharmacokinetics of tradipitant is unknown. Tradipitant has not been studied in individuals with any degree of hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant difference was observed in the pharmacokinetics of tradipitant between individuals with normal renal function and those with mild and moderate renal impairment (eGFR of 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or greater). The impact of severe renal impairment (eGFR of 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or less) on the pharmacokinetics of tradipitant is unknown.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Alcohol
Co-administration of tradipitant with ethanol (20% w/v alcohol in orange juice (240 mL for men and 200 mL women) increased tradipitant Cmax by 9% and AUC0-24 by 14%. This increase in exposure is not considered to be clinically relevant.
  Text
  Tradipitant is administered orally. Tradipitant plasma protein binding ranges from 96% to more than 99% in vitro. The apparent Vd is 1,956 L in healthy individuals. Tradipitant crosses the blood-brain barrier. In vitro findings suggest that tradipitant is extensively metabolized by non-CYP450-mediated processes and CYP enzymes (CYP3A4, CYP2C19, and to a lesser extent by CYP2C8). Tradipitant is also glucuronidated by UGT1A4 and UGT2B7. Four major metabolites have been identified (M2, M3, M4, and M8) and represent 40%, 33%, 43%, and 42% of the parent AUC, respectively. Following a single dose of radiolabeled tradipitant 25 mg, approximately 80% was recovered in the feces and 7% in the urine. Unchanged tradipitant was minimal in the feces and was not detected in urine. The apparent oral clearance of tradipitant is 41.7 L/hour in healthy subjects. The mean elimination half-life is approximately 34 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-gp
Tradipitant is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate and is not a substrate of BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, MATE1, or MATE2-K. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase tradipitant exposure. In vitro studies show tradipitant may inhibit and induce CYP3A4; however, an in vivo study showed no clinical difference in midazolam pharmacokinetics when co-administered with tradipitant. Tradipitant does not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT2, OAT1, OAT3, MATE1, and MATE2K. Tradipitant does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, or CYP2C19.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer 60 minutes before an event expected to cause vomiting induced by motion.
Administer on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour prior to or 2 hours after a full meal.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    85 mg or 170 mg PO as a single dose/24 hours.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    85 mg or 170 mg PO as a single dose/24 hours.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Avoid tradipitant use in individuals with mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or greater): No dosage adjustment is needed.
Severe renal impairment (eGFR 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or less): Avoid use.
