=== Calcium Phosphate (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3993)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 doses (packets)/day

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

Brand Names
  - NeutraSal

Dosage Forms
  - Calcium Phosphate Dibasic Bulk powder
  - Calcium Phosphate, Tribasic Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral rinse (NeutraSal)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Swish with 15 mL of solution in the mouth for 1 minute, then spit the solution out; repeat with an additional 15 mL of solution. Do not swallow. May use oral rinse 2 to 10 times per day or as needed.
    Heading
    For the treatment of xerostomia due to hyposalivation; drugs that suppress salivation (i.e., antihistamines and anticholinergic agents); surgery; chemotherapy; radiotherapy near the salivary glands; infection or dysfunction of the salivary glands; obstruction of the salivary ducts; fever; emotional factors such as fear or anxiety; or Sjogren syndrome
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral rinse (NeutraSal)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Swish with 15 mL of solution in the mouth for 1 minute, then spit the solution out; repeat with an additional 15 mL of solution. Do not swallow. Use 4 doses per day starting at the onset of cancer treatment or as needed. Up to 10 doses per day may be used as needed to treat pain/discomfort from mucositis. Fewer days of pain due to mucositis (mean, 2.86 days vs. 7.67 days; p = 0.0001) were reported following treatment with a supersaturated calcium phosphate oral rinse plus 4 fluoride topical tray treatments compared with treatment with an oral fluoride rinse plus 4 placebo gel topical tray treatments in patients who received high-dose chemotherapy and radiation as part of a hematopoietic stem-cell transplant (HSCT) in a randomized, double-blind, trial (n = 95; age range, 18 to 70 years). During the HSCT, patients used 30 mL of the oral rinse at least 4 times per day (up to 10 times per day). Adding a supersaturated calcium phosphate oral rinse (mean use, 4 +/- 1.2 times daily) to standard care used to treat mucositis-related symptoms did not result in significantly fewer days of peak dysphagia (27.7 days vs. 32.5 days; p = 0.38) or significantly decreased use of analgesic (38.9 days vs. 45.7 days; p = 0.24) or opioid (12.3 days vs. 14.6 days; p = 0.68) pain medications compared to standard care alone in head and neck cancer patients treated with chemotherapy and/or radiation in a randomized trial (n =58; age range, 24 to 78 years). Patients in this study received intensity-modulated radiation therapy between 60 and 72 Gray in 6 to 7 weeks. Some patients received concurrent chemotherapy. The standard care regimen consisted of magic mouth wash (with hydrocortisone, lidocaine, nystatin, propylene glycol, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, and water), analgesics (i.e., acetaminophen, nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs, tramadol, and buprenorphine), antimycotics (i.e.,fluconazole), antibiotics (i.e., amoxicillin clavulanate), and parenteral tube feeding as needed.
    Heading
    For xerostomia prophylaxis in patients receiving radiation or high-dose chemotherapy, as an adjunct to standard oral care in relieving the discomfort associated with oral mucositis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    The safety of supersaturated calcium phosphate (NeutraSal) during pregnancy has not been established. This product is administered as an oral rinse and is not swallowed or intended for systemic use.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use supersaturated calcium phosphate (NeutraSal) with caution during breast-feeding. The safety of supersaturated calcium phosphate use during lactation has not been established. However, it is unlikely that any specific precautions are necessary, given that this product is administered as an oral rinse and is not swallowed or intended for systemic use. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Supersaturated calcium phosphate contains sodium; therefore, patients advised to adhere to sodium restriction/a low sodium diet should consult their physician before use.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    The safety of supersaturated calcium phosphate (NeutraSal) during pregnancy has not been established. This product is administered as an oral rinse and is not swallowed or intended for systemic use.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use supersaturated calcium phosphate (NeutraSal) with caution during breast-feeding. The safety of supersaturated calcium phosphate use during lactation has not been established. However, it is unlikely that any specific precautions are necessary, given that this product is administered as an oral rinse and is not swallowed or intended for systemic use. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Diphenoxylate can decrease GI motility. Drugs used to treat constipation, such as laxatives, would counteract the effect of antidiarrheals. In general, it would be illogical to concurrently administer these drugs at the same time. If an antidiarrheal medication is needed, it would be wise to temporarily discontinue use of agents with laxative effects.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Bisacodyl: (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Bulk-forming laxative: (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. In addition, loop diuretics may increase the risk of hypokalemia especially in patients receiving prolonged therapy with laxatives. Monitor serum potassium levels to determine the need for potassium supplementation and/or alteration in drug therapy.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Burosumab: (Contraindicated) Oral phosphates are contraindicated in patients receiving burosumab; discontinue sodium phosphate, disbasic, sodium phosphate, monobasic 1 week prior to initiation of burosumab.
Calcium Acetate: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Calcium Chloride: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Calcium Gluconate: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Calcium: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Captopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Chromium: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Diphenoxylate can decrease GI motility. Drugs used to treat constipation, such as laxatives, would counteract the effect of antidiarrheals. In general, it would be illogical to concurrently administer these drugs at the same time. If an antidiarrheal medication is needed, it would be wise to temporarily discontinue use of agents with laxative effects.
Docusate Sodium; Senna: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed not to administer additional laxatives or purgative agents during treatment with sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Docusate: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed not to administer additional laxatives or purgative agents during treatment with sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. In addition, loop diuretics may increase the risk of hypokalemia especially in patients receiving prolonged therapy with laxatives. Monitor serum potassium levels to determine the need for potassium supplementation and/or alteration in drug therapy.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. In addition, loop diuretics may increase the risk of hypokalemia especially in patients receiving prolonged therapy with laxatives. Monitor serum potassium levels to determine the need for potassium supplementation and/or alteration in drug therapy.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as indapamide may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Lactulose: (Major) In general, other laxatives, such as sodium phosphate, dibasic, sodium phosphate, monobasic, should not be used concurrently with lactulose, especially during the initial phase of therapy for portal-systemic encephalopathy, because the loose stools resulting from their use may falsely suggest that adequate lactulose dosage has been achieved.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. In addition, loop diuretics may increase the risk of hypokalemia especially in patients receiving prolonged therapy with laxatives. Monitor serum potassium levels to determine the need for potassium supplementation and/or alteration in drug therapy.
Losartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Lubiprostone: (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery.
Magnesium Citrate: (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Methylcellulose: (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Mineral Oil: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed not to administer additional laxatives or purgative agents during treatment with sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Pimozide: (Moderate) According to the manufacturer of pimozide, the drug should not be coadministered with drugs known to cause electrolyte imbalances, such as sodium phosphate, dibasic, sodium phosphate monobasic when used as an enema or bowel cleanser. Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), and electrolyte imbalances (e.g., hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia) may increase the risk of life-threatening arrhythmias. Pimozide is contraindicated in patients with known hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Polycarbophil: (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery.
Polyethylene Glycol: (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery. Use in patients using small doses of polyethylene glycol 3350 (e.g., Miralax) may be permissable, as long as the patient does not use their chronic laxative therapy on the day of the preparation. Watch for electrolyte and fluid abnormalities in all patients using bowel preparations.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes: (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery. Use in patients using small doses of polyethylene glycol 3350 (e.g., Miralax) may be permissable, as long as the patient does not use their chronic laxative therapy on the day of the preparation. Watch for electrolyte and fluid abnormalities in all patients using bowel preparations.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Ascorbic Acid: (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery. Use in patients using small doses of polyethylene glycol 3350 (e.g., Miralax) may be permissable, as long as the patient does not use their chronic laxative therapy on the day of the preparation. Watch for electrolyte and fluid abnormalities in all patients using bowel preparations.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Bisacodyl: (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery. (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery. Use in patients using small doses of polyethylene glycol 3350 (e.g., Miralax) may be permissable, as long as the patient does not use their chronic laxative therapy on the day of the preparation. Watch for electrolyte and fluid abnormalities in all patients using bowel preparations.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Psyllium: (Moderate) Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous should not be combined with additional laxatives or purgatives when being used to evacuate the bowel prior to colonic radiologic examinations or surgery.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Stool Softners: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed not to administer additional laxatives or purgative agents during treatment with sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as indapamide may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. In addition, loop diuretics may increase the risk of hypokalemia especially in patients receiving prolonged therapy with laxatives. Monitor serum potassium levels to determine the need for potassium supplementation and/or alteration in drug therapy.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
    Headline
    dysgeusia, nausea
    General Information
    Supersaturated calcium phosphate (NeutraSal) becomes an oral rinse after the powder is diluted in water. It is not intended for systemic use. The manufacturer states that no adverse events are anticipated if this product is accidentally swallowed. In a randomized clinical trial (n = 58), 4 patients with head and neck cancer who had chemotherapy and/or radiation experienced a bad taste/dysgeusia and nausea with a supersaturated calcium phosphate oral rinse intended to relieve symptoms of oral mucositis. These patients discontinued using the rinse.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Calcium phosphate, supersaturated (NeutraSal) is a powder containing the active ingredients sodium, phosphate, calcium, chloride, and bicarbonate. When dissolved in water, the electrolyte solution mimics natural saliva and is used in the treatment of symptoms caused by dry mouth and oral mucositis. NeutraSal is indicated for the adjunctive treatment of discomfort associated with oral mucositis caused by radiation or high dose chemotherapy, or for hyposalivation-induced dry mouth caused by surgery, radiotherapy near the salivary glands, chemotherapy, infection or dysfunction of the salivary gland, fever, emotional factors, obstruction of the salivary ducts, or Sjogren syndrome. It is designated by the FDA as a device and received approval in 2009.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Supersaturated calcium phosphate (NeutraSal) powder packet becomes an electrolyte solution resembling human saliva when mixed with water. This rinse helps to restore the normal ionic and pH balance in the oral cavity. It works by maintaining moistness in the oral cavity, relieving dryness and fissuring of the oral mucosa, and relieving pain resulting from hyposalivation. The effervescent formulation improves sodium bicarbonate penetration in the oral mucosa.

Pharmacokinetics
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Supersaturated calcium phosphate (NeutraSal) becomes an oral rinse after the powder is diluted in water. It is not intended for systemic use.The manufacturer provides no pharmacokinetic data for this product.

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Other Oral Formulations
      Description
      Oral Rinse (NeutraSal)
Powder packets must be diluted prior to administration; do not use if the packet is opened or shows sign of leakage or damage.
Dissolve or disperse 1 packet in approximately 30 mL (1 ounce) of tap water; distilled or purified water may also be used.
Use immediately after the solution appears clear or nearly clear in the glass, or in about 15 seconds; may stir contents in the water.
Swish with 15 mL of solution in the mouth for 1 minute, then spit the solution out; repeat with an additional 15 mL of solution. Do not swallow.
Avoid eating or drinking for at least 15 minutes after use.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    10 doses (packets)/day
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    10 doses (packets)/day

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
