=== Acetylcholine Chloride — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 1179)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acetylcholine chloride is a direct-acting parasympathomimetic ophthalmic agent used to produce miosis during ophthalmic surgery.

Common adult doses: 20 mg (2 mL of 1% Miochol-E solution) intraocularly per eye is usually sufficient. A second application may be needed for prolonged miosis.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): corneal degeneration, corneal edema, corneal opacification, optic atrophy, bradycardia, bronchospasm, diaphoresis, dyspnea, flushing, headache, hypotension

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy Safe use of acetylcholine chloride during pregnancy has not been established. breast-feeding Use acetylcholine chloride with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known...

ACETYLCHOLINE CHLORIDE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Miochol-E

Indication Specific Dosing

For miosis induction in cataract surgery, in penetrating keratoplasty, iridectomy and other anterior segment ocular surgery where rapid miosis may be required

Intraocular dosage (Miochol-E 1% solution)
Adults


In most cases, 0.5 to 2 mL of the 1% intraocular solution instilled into the anterior chamber produces satisfactory miosis. Intraocular irrigation with the drug must be gentle. Note that the syringe filter supplied with Miochol-E has a priming volume of 0.6 mL (approximately). For prolonged miosis, a second application may be used.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


Safe use of acetylcholine chloride during pregnancy has not been established.


breast-feeding


Use acetylcholine chloride with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known whether acetylcholine is excreted into human milk. Because of its short half-life and low systemic absorption when administered intraocularly, it is unlikely to reach the bloodstream of a breast-fed child.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Safe use of acetylcholine chloride during pregnancy has not been established.


Interactions

Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Amoxapine: (Major) Amoxapine may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics. However, bethanechol has occasionally been used therapeutically to offset some of the adverse antimuscarinic effects of cyclic antidepressants. Due to their anticholinergic actions, some cyclic antidepressants, such as amoxapine, may potentially antagonize the therapeutic actions of cholinergic agonists.
Anticholinergics: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Atropine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Benzgalantamine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Benztropine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Cholinesterase inhibitors: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Dicyclomine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Disopyramide possesses clinically significant antimuscarinic properties and these appear to be dose-related. It is possible that disopyramide could antagonize the muscarinic actions of cholinergic agonists. Clinicians should be alert to this possibility.
Donepezil: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
flavoxATE: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Galantamine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Glycopyrrolate: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Hyoscyamine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Methscopolamine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Neostigmine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided. (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
oxyBUTYnin: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
PHYSostigmine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
pyRIDostigmine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Rivastigmine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Scopolamine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Trospium: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.


Adverse Reaction
corneal degeneration, corneal edema, corneal opacification, optic atrophy


Infrequent cases of corneal edema, corneal clouding (corneal opacification), corneal decompensation (corneal degeneration), iris atrophy (optic atrophy), and temporary lens opacities (due to osmotic effect of 5% mannitol present in preparation) have been reported with the use of intraocular acetylcholine.


bradycardia, bronchospasm, diaphoresis, dyspnea, flushing, headache, hypotension


Systemic adverse reactions of acetylcholine have rarely been reported, and may reflect rare systemic exposure to the drug. These include bradycardia, bronchospasm, hypotension, flushing, headache, dyspnea and diaphoresis.


Description

Acetylcholine chloride is a direct-acting parasympathomimetic ophthalmic agent used to produce miosis during ophthalmic surgery. It should be administered only in a 1% solution by instillation intraocularly into the anterior chamber of the eye; miosis occurs promptly and lasts for approximately 10 minutes. This drug was approved by the FDA in 1966.

Mechanism Of Action

Acetylcholine is a direct-acting parasympathomimetic ophthalmic agent used to produce miosis during ophthalmic surgery. It is a naturally occurring neurohormone that helps transmit nerve impulses at all cholinergic sites including somatic and autonomic nerves. Direct application of acetylcholine causes contraction of the sphincter muscles of the iris. This results in miosis and contraction of the ciliary muscle thereby leading to accommodation. Miosis occurs promptly and lasts for approximately 10 minutes.

Pharmacokinetics

Acetylcholine chloride is administered intraocularly. Precise pharmacokinetic data are not available. When applied to the intact eye, natural cholinesterase rapidly breaks the drug down more rapidly than it can penetrate the cornea.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Other Route(s)

Intraocular route:
Acetylcholine is applied directly to the iris where it is absorbed immediately and produces miosis within seconds. Miosis lasts for approximately 10 minutes. Topical ocular instillation of acetylcholine to the intact eye causes no discernible response as cholinesterase destroys the molecule more rapidly than it can penetrate the cornea.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Ophthalmic Administration

Directions for Preparing MIOCHOL-E (acetylcholine chloride):
Aqueous solutions of acetylcholine chloride are unstable. Prepare solution immediately before use.
Sterile unless package is open or broken. Do NOT gas sterilize.
Inspect the unopened blister, vial and ampule to ensure that they are all intact. Peel open the blister under a sterile field. Maintain sterility of the outer containers of the vial and ampule during preparation of solution.
Aseptically attach a sterile 18-20 gauge, beveled needle to the luer tip of a sterile disposable syringe with a twisting motion to assure a secure fit.
Break open the ampule containing the diluent. The One Point Cut (OPC) ampule must be opened as follows: Hold the bottom part of the ampule with the thumb pointing to the colored dot. Grasp the top of the ampoule with the other hand, positioning the thumb at the colored dot, and press back to break at the existing cut under the dot.
Remove the needle protector and withdraw the diluent from the ampule into the syringe. Discard the ampule.
Remove and discard the cap from the top of the vial.
Insert the needle through the center of the vial stopper, and transfer the diluent from the syringe to the vial. Shake gently to dissolve the powder.
Slowly withdraw the solution from the vial through the needle into the syringe. Discard the needle.
Aseptically open the syringe filter pouch, and attach the filter onto the luer tip of the syringe with a twisting motion to assure a secure fit.
Aseptically attach a sterile blunt tip irrigation cannula to the male luer of the filter prior to intraocular irrigation.
Discard the filter appropriately after use.
Do not reuse the syringe filter.
Do not aspirate and inject through the same filter.
Do not use solution which is not clear and colorless. Discard any solution that has not been used.
 
Administration of MIOCHOL-E (acetylcholine chloride):
Instill into the anterior chamber before or after securing one or more sutures. Instillation should be parallel to the iris face and tangential to pupil border.
Instillation should be gentle; avoid forceful jet administration.
If there are no mechanical hindrances, the pupil starts to constrict in seconds and the peripheral iris is drawn away from the angle of the anterior chamber. Any anatomical hindrance to miosis must be released to permit the desired effect of the drug. In most cases, 0.5 to 2 mL produces satisfactory miosis. Note that the syringe filter supplied with Miochol-E has a priming volume of 0.6 mL (approximately).
In cataract surgery, use Miochol-E only after delivery of the lens.
Discard any solution that has not been used.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

20 mg (2 mL of 1% Miochol-E solution) intraocularly per eye is usually sufficient. A second application may be needed for prolonged miosis.

Geriatric

20 mg (2 mL of 1% Miochol-E solution) intraocularly per eye is usually sufficient. A second application may be needed for prolonged miosis.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed for intraocular use.

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed for intraocular use.

© 2026 Elsevier