=== Isosorbide Dinitrate (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 328)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Isosorbide dinitrate is a moderate- to long-acting oral organic nitrate used for the relief and prophylactic management of angina pectoris.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 480 mg/day PO for immediate-release preparations; 160mg/day PO for sustained-release preparations; maximum dosage for SL route is not available.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bradycardia, dizziness, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, sinus tachycardia, syncope

In an Overdose: These symptoms are usually associated with high doses/overdoses of nitrate products, but can be seen at normal therapeutic doses.Drug tolerance, or attenuation of isosorbide's vasodilatory effects, can develop when large or sustained...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Use isosorbide dinitrate with caution in patients with preexisting hypotension, particularly orthostatic hypotension, or in patients with hypovolemia (or dehydration), because the drug can worsen hypotension, cause tachycardia, and/or exacerbate angina. Severe idiosyncratic reactions have occurred... NOTE: When using isosorbide dinitrate chronically, an interdosing ('nitrate-free') interval sufficient to avoid nitrate tolerance is required.

Brand Names
  - Dilatrate SR
  - Isochron
  - IsoDitrate
  - Isordil Titradose
  - Sorbitrate
  - Wesorbide

Dosage Forms
  - BiDil Tablet
  - IsoDitrate 40mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Isordil Titradose 40mg Tablet
  - Isordil Titradose 5mg Tablet
  - Isosorbide Dinitrate 10mg Oral tablet
  - Isosorbide Dinitrate 20mg Oral tablet
  - Isosorbide Dinitrate 20mg, Hydralazine Hydrochloride 37.5mg Oral tablet
  - Isosorbide Dinitrate 30mg Oral tablet
  - Isosorbide Dinitrate 40mg Oral tablet
  - Isosorbide Dinitrate 5mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (immediate-release tablets)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 to 20 mg PO 2 to 3 times daily, initially. Increase dose as needed. Usual dose: 10 to 40 mg PO 2 to 3 times daily. Higher doses may be necessary. Dose range: 10 to 480 mg/day. A daily dose-free interval of 14 hours or more is recommended to minimize tolerance.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (extended-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        40 mg PO once daily, initially. Increase dose as needed. Max: 160 mg/day. A daily dose-free interval of 14 hours or more is recommended to minimize tolerance.
    Heading
    For the prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (immediate-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        20 to 30 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily, initially. Increase the dose every 1 to 2 weeks to the highest dosage level tolerated. Max: 120 mg/day. Guidelines recommend hydralazine plus isosorbide dinitrate to improve symptoms and reduce morbidity and mortality in persons self-identified as Black with NYHA class III to IV reduced ejection fraction heart failure (HFrEF) who are receiving optimal medical therapy. In persons with HFrEF who cannot be given first-line agents, such as an angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), because of drug intolerance or renal insufficiency, a combination of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate may be considered to reduce morbidity and mortality.
    Heading
    For the treatment of heart failure†
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 to 30 mg PO twice daily; long-acting nitrates can decrease the high-amplitude contractions seen in diffuse esophageal spasm, but may not consistently relieve associated chest pain. In general, the initial dose for a geriatric patient should start at the low end of the dosing range, since some patients may be more sensitive to hypotensive effects. Adjust dosage based on clinical response.
    Heading
    For the treatment of diffuse esophageal spasm† without gastroesophageal reflux
    Routes
      Heading
      Sublingual dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mg SL 10 to 15 minutes before meals. Reserve for individuals who refuse or are not candidates for more definitive therapies (pneumatic dilation or surgical myotomy) or who fail to respond to botulinum toxin injections.
    Heading
    For the treatment of achalasia†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Use isosorbide dinitrate with caution in patients with preexisting hypotension, particularly orthostatic hypotension, or in patients with hypovolemia (or dehydration), because the drug can worsen hypotension, cause tachycardia, and/or exacerbate angina. Severe idiosyncratic reactions have occurred with nitrates that have rarely resulted in fatalities.
 
Elderly patients may have reduced baroceptor function; severe orthostatic hypotension may occur when vasodilators such as nitrates are administered. Elderly patients may be at higher risk of falling due to syncope, even at therapeutic doses. When dosing nitrates in the elderly, it may be prudent to start the dose at the low end of the dosing range and monitor the patients closely for hypotensive effects. Subsequent dosage adjustments should be made based on clinical response.
 
Nitrates may also aggravate angina in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Patients who are receiving isosorbide dinitrate therapy should be advised to report to the hospital emergency room if anginal pain does not subside after three sublingual doses. Such resistance may indicate the development of severe ischemia such as an acute myocardial infarction. Isosorbide dinitrate should be used cautiously in patients with recent myocardial infarction because drug-induced hypotension and/or tachycardia can worsen ischemia, and the effects of long-acting nitrates are difficult to terminate quickly.
 
Isosorbide dinitrate should not be used in patients with increased intracranial pressure (e.g., recent head trauma or intracranial bleeding) because it's vasodilatory effects on the meningeal blood vessels can exacerbate these conditions.
 
Isosorbide dinitrate is absolutely contraindicated in patients who have known nitrate hypersensitivity.
 
Isosorbide dinitrate is contraindicated in patients with closed-angle glaucoma due to the risk of drug-induced increased intraocular pressure.
 
Isosorbide dinitrate is contraindicated in patients with severe anemia because the drug causes oxidation of hemoglobin to methemoglobin, which could exacerbate this condition.
 
Because isosorbide dinitrate plasma concentrations increase in patients with cirrhosis, isosorbide dinitrate should be used cautiously in patients with hepatic disease as metabolism of the drug can be impaired; accumulation of isosorbide dinitrate can result in an increased risk of methemoglobinemia.
 
Isosorbide dinitrate is relatively contraindicated in patients with hyperthyroidism.
 
Extended-release isosorbide dinitrate products should be avoided in patients with GI disease such as hypermotility or malabsorption syndromes. This dosage form may not dissolve and may be excreted intact in these conditions.
 
When nitrates are to be discontinued following long-term or high-dose administration, avoid abrupt discontinuation to avoid potential for rebound angina.
 
Isosorbide dinitrate is classified as pregnancy risk category C. Although no adequate human studies have examined the effects of this drug on the fetus, animal reproduction studies have shown adverse fetal effects. Therefore, in making the decision to administer this drug during pregnancy, the potential risks to the fetus must be weighed against the potential benefits to the mother.
 
It is not known whether isosorbide dinitrate or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when isosorbide dinitrate is administered to a woman who is breast-feeding. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally ingested drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.
 
The safety and effectiveness of isosorbide dinitrate in children have not been established.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    hypotension, hypovolemia
    General Information
    Use isosorbide dinitrate with caution in individuals with preexisting hypotension or hypovolemia due to the risk of precipitating or exacerbating hypotension. Isosorbide dinitrate-induced hypotension may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina.
    Headline
    myocardial infarction
    General Information
    Use isosorbide dinitrate with caution in individuals with heart failure or recent myocardial infarction, since benefits have not been established, and it is difficult to rapidly terminate the drug effects. Isosorbide dinitrate is not recommended in individuals with a right ventricular infarction.
    Headline
    head trauma, increased intracranial pressure, intracranial bleeding
    General Information
    Isosorbide dinitrate should not be used in individuals with increased intracranial pressure (e.g., recent head trauma or intracranial bleeding) due to cerebral vasodilation.
    Headline
    aortic stenosis, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy
    General Information
    Nitrate therapy may aggravate angina in individuals with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy; thus, use caution in this patient population. Vasodilators, such as isosorbide dinitrate, may exacerbate or worsen left ventricular outflow tract obstruction in individuals with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy or aortic stenosis.
    Headline
    closed-angle glaucoma
    General Information
    Isosorbide dinitrate should be avoided in individuals with closed-angle glaucoma due to the risk of drug-induced increased intraocular pressure.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Greater sensitivity to the usual dosage of isosorbide dinitrate may occur in some older adults and care should be taken in initial dose selection for geriatric adults. In general, initial doses should be at the low end of the dosage range to reflect greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy.  Elderly adults have a higher risk of hypotension, including orthostatic hypotension, particularly in the presence of hypovolemia, which may increase fall risk.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    No adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of isosorbide dinitrate during human pregnancy are available. At oral doses 35 and 150 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), isosorbide dinitrate has been shown to cause a dose-related increase in embryotoxicity (increase in mummified pups) in rabbits.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use isosorbide dinitrate with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of isosorbide dinitrate in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential drug exposure in the child, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    No adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of isosorbide dinitrate during human pregnancy are available. At oral doses 35 and 150 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), isosorbide dinitrate has been shown to cause a dose-related increase in embryotoxicity (increase in mummified pups) in rabbits.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use isosorbide dinitrate with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of isosorbide dinitrate in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential drug exposure in the child, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Nitrates can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as diuretics.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) The manufacturer of alfuzosin warns that concurrent use with nitrates has the potential to cause hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, or syncope. Caution is advisable when coadministering alfuzosin and a nitrate to patients with symptomatic hypotension or those who have had a previous hypotensive response to either agent.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Apomorphine: (Major) Coadministration of apomorphine and nitrates can cause large decreases in blood pressure. The effect is especially of concern with use of sublingual nitroglycerin products. Instruct patients to lie down before taking a sublingual nitroglycerin dose and to remain supine for at least 45 minutes after to reduce orthostatic risk. In one evaluation, the largest mean decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin were 14.3 mmHg and 13.5 mmHg, respectively. The largest recorded decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressures were 65 mmHg and 43 mmHg during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin together.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Avanafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Benzalkonium Chloride; Benzocaine: (Moderate) Rare and sometimes fatal cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported with the use of topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Nitrates may also induce methemoglobin formation that will be additive to that formed by benzocaine products. Therefore, caution is warranted when combining nitrate medications with topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Patients using OTC benzocaine gels and liquids should be advised to seek immediate medical attention if signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia develop. In addition, clinicians should closely monitor patients for the development of methemoglobinemia when benzocaine sprays are used during a procedure.
Benzocaine: (Moderate) Rare and sometimes fatal cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported with the use of topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Nitrates may also induce methemoglobin formation that will be additive to that formed by benzocaine products. Therefore, caution is warranted when combining nitrate medications with topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Patients using OTC benzocaine gels and liquids should be advised to seek immediate medical attention if signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia develop. In addition, clinicians should closely monitor patients for the development of methemoglobinemia when benzocaine sprays are used during a procedure.
Benzocaine; Butamben; Tetracaine: (Moderate) Rare and sometimes fatal cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported with the use of topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Nitrates may also induce methemoglobin formation that will be additive to that formed by benzocaine products. Therefore, caution is warranted when combining nitrate medications with topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Patients using OTC benzocaine gels and liquids should be advised to seek immediate medical attention if signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia develop. In addition, clinicians should closely monitor patients for the development of methemoglobinemia when benzocaine sprays are used during a procedure.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with drugs that can lower blood pressure, including systemic nitrates. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Captopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Moderate) Nitrates can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as diuretics.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant central-acting adrenergic agent and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of chloroprocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue chloroprocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant central-acting adrenergic agent and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Coadministration of dapsone with nitrates may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Advise patients to discontinue treatment and seek immediate medical attention with any signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dihydroergotamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ergotamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant central-acting adrenergic agent and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) may potentially interact with nitrates. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with known cardiovascular conditions should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant hydralazine and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant hydralazine and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Losartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Mannitol: (Moderate) Nitrates can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as diuretics.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mepivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue mepivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Nitrates can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as diuretics.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant central-acting adrenergic agent and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in nitrate efficacy if concomitant use with methylergonovine is necessary. Methylergonovine produces vasoconstriction and may interfere with antianginal medications.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitric Oxide: (Moderate) Monitor for methemoglobinemia during concomitant use of nitric oxide and nitric oxide donors, such as nitrates. Concomitant use may increase the risk for this adverse effect.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension and enhance the orthostatic effects of nitrates. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and nitrates who are susceptible to hypotension.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Phosphodiesterase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of primaquine and nitrates due to the risk for methemoglobinemia. Both primaquine and nitrates are associated with this adverse effect and concomitant use may increase risk.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Riociguat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of riociguat and nitrates or nitric oxide donors (e.g., amyl nitrite) is contraindicated due to the risk of hypotension. The blood pressure lowering effect of sublingual nitroglycerin was potentiated when administered 4 and 8 hours after riociguat. Syncope was reported in some patients.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue ropivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Sildenafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by concurrent nitrates. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Sympathomimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Tadalafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents or rapid-onset vasodilators, such as nitrates.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Timolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Vardenafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  A persistent, throbbing headache commonly occurs following isosorbide dinitrate administration. Although nitrate-induced headaches usually diminish quickly, aspirin or other analgesic agents may be given to alleviate the pain. Severe or prolonged headaches are rare but warrant prompt medical attention.Gastrointestinal disturbances, such as nausea/vomiting, also have been reported and may be alleviated by a decrease in dosage. Xerostomia (dry mouth) and sublingual burning have been reported during administration of isosorbide dinitrate, but these adverse effects are rare.Orthostatic hypotension can occur following administration of nitrates, accompanied by dizziness, weakness, and occasionally syncope. Hypersensitivity to nitrates also can occur, resulting in nausea/vomiting, pallor, diaphoresis, sinus tachycardia, syncope, palpitations, and cardiovascular collapse. Reflex compensatory tachycardia that occurs following nitrate administration can precipitate syncope. Patients should be sitting or lying down during and immediately after nitrate therapy.Transient cutaneous vasodilation (flushing) of the head and neck region can occur with nitrate therapy. Rash (unspecified) also can occur rarely during therapy with nitrates.Methemoglobinemia is a rare adverse reaction with nitrate products. Symptoms of methemoglobinemia include cyanosis (blue discoloration of the lips and mucous membranes), nausea/vomiting, coma, and shock. These symptoms are usually associated with high doses/overdoses of nitrate products, but can be seen at normal therapeutic doses.Drug tolerance, or attenuation of isosorbide's vasodilatory effects, can develop when large or sustained dosages are given. This effect is probably related to both the size of the dose and the frequency of the dosing interval. If tolerance occurs, it is recommended that the drug be withdrawn for 12—36 hours (to allow for a 'drug-free' interval) then reinstituted. This drug-free interval allows plasma concentrations of isosorbide dinitrate to decrease, preventing drug tolerance and avoiding the development of attenuation of the drug's antianginal effects. In addition, there is also limited evidence that the use of hydralazine or carvedilol in combination with nitrates may prevent nitrate tolerance.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Adverse effects such as headache are mainly a result of isosorbide dinitrate's vasodilatory activity. A persistent, throbbing, potentially severe headache commonly occurs after isosorbide dinitrate administration. The headache may be recurrent with each daily dose, especially at higher doses. In patients who get these headaches, they serve as a marker of anti-anginal drug activity; patients should not alter the schedule of their treatment as a strategy to avoid headache presence. Although nitrate-induced headaches usually diminish quickly, aspirin, acetaminophen, or other analgesic agents may be given to alleviate the pain. Up to 40% of patients in controlled clinical trials report headache during isosorbide treatment; incidences are similar between isosorbide dinitrate and isosorbide mononitrate therapies. With any nitrate therapies, headache is reported in 3—19% of patients with angina. Headache may occur slightly more frequently with isosorbide dinitrate is combined with hydralazine; an incidence of 49.5% was reported with combination therapy versus 21.1% in placebo-receiving groups in the A-He-FT trials. Severe or prolonged headaches are rare but warrant prompt medical attention.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bradycardia, dizziness, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, sinus tachycardia, syncope
    General Information
    Most of isosorbide dinitrate's reported side effects are an extension of its vasodilatory effects. Dizziness is a commonly reported side effect with isosorbide dinitrate monotherapy or combination therapy; various clinical trials report incidences of 1% to 30.1% versus roughly 0% to 13% for placebo treated patients. Transient episodes of lightheadedness, occasionally related to blood pressure changes, may also occur. Hypotension does not occur frequently, but in some patients it may be severe enough to warrant discontinuation of therapy. Hypotension is more likely with combination therapy. Incidence rates for hypotension vary with population of use; roughly 5% to 10% of nitrate-treated patients with chronic angina or heart failure and up to 9% of those with unstable angina report hypotension and the highest incidences of hypotension are reported in the use of nitrates in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction (1% to 48%). Severe hypotension, particularly orthostatic hypotension, can occur after administration of isosorbide dinitrate, even with small doses. Hypotension may be especially severe in patients receiving phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors and thus combined use is contraindicated. Hypotension may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris in some patients. Syncope and rebound hypertension have been reported, but are uncommon; reflex compensatory sinus tachycardia that occurs following nitrate administration can precipitate syncope. Patients should be sitting or lying down during and immediately after nitrate therapy. Nitrate therapy may also aggravate the angina cause by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Nitrates rarely cause coronary steal, crescendo (unstable) angina, and myocardial ischemia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal disturbances, such as nausea (roughly 2—4% in all clinical trials) and vomiting (<1%), have been reported with the use of isosorbide dinitrate, ISDN, and these effects occur at incidences to those observed with isosorbide mononitrate therapy. They are rarely a cause of drug discontinuation. Xerostomia (dry mouth) and sublingual irritation or burning have been reported during administration of isosorbide dinitrate, but these adverse effects are not common, generally occurring in <1% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    flushing, rash (unspecified)
    General Information
    Transient cutaneous vasodilation (flushing) of the head and neck region can occur with isosorbide dinitrate therapy. Rash (unspecified) also can occur rarely during therapy with nitrates. No incidence data are available.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cyanosis, methemoglobinemia
    General Information
    Methemoglobinemia is an extremely rare adverse reaction with isosorbide dinitrate. Symptoms of methemoglobinemia include cyanosis (blue discoloration of the lips and mucous membranes), nausea/vomiting, coma, and shock. These symptoms are usually associated with high doses/overdoses of nitrate products, but can rarely be seen at normal therapeutic doses.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cyanosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      methemoglobinemia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    tolerance
    General Information
    Drug tolerance, or attenuation of isosorbide's vasodilatory effects, can develop when large or sustained dosages are given. This effect is probably related to both the size of the dose and the frequency of the dosing interval. If tolerance occurs, it is recommended that the drug be withdrawn for 12—36 hours (to allow for a 'drug-free' interval) then reinstituted. This drug-free interval allows plasma concentrations of isosorbide dinitrate to decrease, preventing drug tolerance and avoiding the development of attenuation of the drug's antianginal effects. In addition, there is also limited evidence that the use of hydralazine or carvedilol in combination with nitrates may prevent nitrate tolerance.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Isosorbide dinitrate is a moderate- to long-acting oral organic nitrate used for the relief and prophylactic management of angina pectoris. Isosorbide dinitrate also has been used as adjunct therapy to treat congestive heart failure, although this indication is not approved by the manufacturer. The addition of hydralazine, an arterial vasodilator, to isosorbide was the first drug combination demonstrated to improve mortality in patients with CHF, albeit to a lesser degree than observed with ACE inhibition. Because of this, isosorbide dinitrate plus hydralazine is considered an alternative therapy in the treatment of heart failure in patients who cannot tolerate ACE inhibitors. Isosorbide is somewhat effective in treating diffuse esophageal spasm†. Isosorbide dinitrate was first approved by the FDA in 1961. In June 2005, a fixed-dose combination therapy of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine (BiDil®) was approved by the FDA for the treatment of heart failure in black patients. When used in conjunction with standard therapy in black patients, this drug combination reduces mortality, reduces the rate of first hospitalizations, and improves quality of life.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Similar to other nitrites and organic nitrates, isosorbide dinitrate is converted in vitro to the active intermediate compound nitric oxide (NO), a reactive free radical. Nitric oxide is also formed endogenously and is believed to be endothelial-derived growth factor. Among other properties, NO is believed to produce vasodilation. Nitric oxide activates the enzyme guanylate cyclase, thereby stimulating the synthesis of cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP). This second messenger then activates a series of protein kinase-dependent phosphorylations in the smooth muscle cells, eventually resulting in the dephosphorylation of the myosin light chain of the smooth muscle fiber and the subsequent release, or extrusion, of calcium ions. The contractile state of smooth muscle is normally maintained by a phosphorylated myosin light chain (stimulated by an increase in calcium ions). Thus, the nitrite- or nitrate-induced dephosphorylation of the myosin light chain signals the cell to release calcium, thereby relaxing the smooth muscle cells and producing vasodilation.
 
It is believed that nitrates correct myocardial oxygen imbalances by reducing systemic and pulmonary arterial pressure (afterload) and decreasing cardiac output secondary to peripheral dilation rather than coronary artery dilation. Nitrates therefore relax peripheral venous vessels, causing a pooling of venous blood and decreased venous return to the heart, which decreases preload. Nitrates reduce both arterial impedance and venous filling pressures, resulting in a reduction of the left ventricular systolic wall tension, thereby decreasing afterload. Thus, nitrate-induced vasodilation increases venous capacitance and decreases arteriole resistance, thereby reducing both the preload and afterload and lowering the cardiac oxygen demand.
 
Total coronary blood flow may be increased by nitrites and nitrates in patients with normal hearts, but in patients with ischemia the drug does not increase total coronary blood flow but simply redistributes blood to ischemic areas. This effect is believed to be due to the drug's preferential dilation of the larger conductive vessels of the coronary circulation, which, in the presence of coronary atherosclerosis, redirects the distribution of the coronary blood supply to ischemic areas.
 
Nitrates cause a transient reflex compensatory increase in heart rate and myocardial contractility that would normally increase myocardial oxygen consumption, yet the nitrate-induced decrease in ventricular wall tension results in a net decrease in myocardial oxygen demand and amelioration of the pain of angina pectoris. In addition, isosorbide relaxes all other types of smooth muscle including bronchial, biliary, GI, ureteral, and uterine. Nitrites and nitrates are functional antagonists of acetylcholine, norepinephrine, and histamine.
 
In individuals who have little compensatory tachycardia response, syncope can result from the decrease in blood pressure that occurs following higher doses of nitrites and nitrates. Although this is not likely to occur with doses of nitrates that do not cause blood pressure reduction, patients should be sitting or lying down during and immediately after administration of isosorbide dinitrate.
 
Continuous administration of nitrates can lead to the rapid development of tolerance. The mechanisms responsible for nitrate tolerance are not fully understood; however, proposed mechanisms include neurohormonal counterregulatory mechanisms including activation of reflex vasoconstriction, intravascular volume expansion, desensitization of guanylate cyclase, depletion of sulfhydryl groups in vascular smooth muscle, a decrease in nitroglycerin biotransformation, or nitrate-mediated vascular superoxide production. Nitrate tolerance is thought to occur as a result of several of these mechanisms. Using a dosing schedule with a nitrate-free interval is the most reliable and successful strategy in preventing nitrate tolerance during chronic administration.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Orally administered isosorbide dinitrate is absorbed rapidly from the GI tract and undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism resulting in a variable bioavailability of roughly 25% (ranging from 10—90%); most studies have observed increases in bioavailability during chronic therapy. Sublingual administration bypasses the first-pass effect, resulting in a bioavailability of 45—59%. The bioavailability of sustained-release preparations of ISDN approach 75%. The sublingual and chewable preparations of the drug exert their effect within 5—20 minutes, while the onset of action of conventional oral forms of isosorbide begins in 7.5—45 minutes following administration. Extended-release capsules or tablets have an onset of action of 60—90 minutes. The duration of effect of the sublingual and chewable forms of the drug is 45 minutes to 2 hours, while that of the conventional oral forms is 2—6 hours. The duration of effect of the sustained-release oral preparations is 10—14 hours.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Plasma concentrations of isosorbide dinitrate elevate in patients with cirrhosis; therefore, it may be prudent to use isosorbide dinitrate cautiously in patients with hepatic disease.
  Text
  Isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN) is administered orally. It is about 28% protein bound and the volume of distribution is 2—4 L/kg. Isosorbide distributes throughout the body tissues and is metabolized by denitration to isosorbide-2-mononitrate (15—25%) or isosorbide-5-mononitrate (75—85%), both of which are pharmacologically active and contribute to the efficacy of isosorbide dinitrate, especially isosorbide-5-mononitrate. ISDN is virtually completely metabolized, with minute portions of the parent drug and metabolites excreted renally. The half-life of the parent drug, isosorbide-5-mononitrate, and isosorbide-2-mononitrate in plasma is 1 hour, 5 hours, and 2 hours, respectively.

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: When using isosorbide dinitrate chronically, an interdosing ('nitrate-free') interval sufficient to avoid nitrate tolerance is required. For immediate-release products, an interdosing interval of 14 hours has been used successfully to prevent nitrate tolerance. Suggested dosage times include 0700 and 1200 or 0700, 1200, and 1700. An interdosing interval sufficient to avoid tolerance with sustained-release products has not been demonstrated. In an eccentric dosing schedule (i.e., 0800 & 1400), extended-release isosorbide dinitrate was no more effective than placebo after four weeks of therapy. Thus, the necessary interdosing interval sufficient to avoid tolerance when using extended-release products is unknown, but it may be greater than 18 hours. Large controlled trials suggest that no dosing regimen of isosorbide dinitrate (immediate- or extended-release) should be expected to provide more than about 12 hours of continuous anti-anginal efficacy per day.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Isosorbide dinitrate is administered sublingually, intrabuccally, or PO.
Sublingual (intrabuccal) tablets: Do not crush or chew. Administer while patient is sitting.
Chewable tablets: Chew thoroughly before swallowing; do not crush chewable tablets before administering. Administer while patient is sitting. NOTE: Chewable tablets are no longer available in the US.
Extended-release tablets or capsules: Administer intact; should not be chewed. If headache occurs and cannot be effectively controlled, oral doses may be given with meals.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    480 mg/day PO for immediate-release preparations; 160mg/day PO for sustained-release preparations; maximum dosage for SL route is not available.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    480 mg/day PO for immediate-release preparations; 160mg/day PO for sustained-release preparations; maximum dosage for SL route is not available.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; however, because isosorbide dinitrate plasma concentrations are elevated in patients with cirrhosis, cautious use of isosorbide dinitrate in this population may be prudent.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
It appears that a supplemental dose after intermittent hemodialysis is not needed.
