=== Sparsentan (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5442)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Sparsentan is an oral endothelin and angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated to slow kidney function decline in individuals with primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) who are at risk for rapid disease progression and to reduce proteinuria in individuals with focal segmental...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Weighing more than 50 kg: 800 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. hypotension Consider eliminating or adjusting other antihypertensive medications and maintaining appropriate volume status in persons at risk for hypotension. Hypotension was observed...

Brand Names
  - FILSPARI

Dosage Forms
  - FILSPARI 200mg Tablet
  - FILSPARI 400mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        200 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increase the dose to 400 mg PO once daily as tolerated. When resuming treatment after an interruption, consider starting at 200 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increasing the dose to 400 mg PO once daily as tolerated. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustment may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of primary immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy at risk of rapid disease progression to slow kidney function decline
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults weighing more than 50 kg
        Dosage Description
        400 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increase the dose to 800 mg PO once daily as tolerated. When resuming treatment after an interruption, consider starting at 400 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increasing the dose to 800 mg PO once daily as tolerated. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustment may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Adults weighing 50 kg or less
        Dosage Description
        200 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increase the dose to 400 mg PO once daily as tolerated. When resuming treatment after an interruption, consider starting at 200 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increasing the dose to 400 mg PO once daily as tolerated. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustment may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 8 to 17 years weighing more than 50 kg
        Dosage Description
        400 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increase the dose to 800 mg PO once daily as tolerated. When resuming treatment after an interruption, consider starting at 400 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increasing the dose to 800 mg PO once daily as tolerated. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustment may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 8 to 17 years weighing 50 kg or less
        Dosage Description
        200 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increase the dose to 400 mg PO once daily as tolerated. When resuming treatment after an interruption, consider starting at 200 mg PO once daily for 14 days, then increasing the dose to 400 mg PO once daily as tolerated. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustment may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis without nephrotic syndrome to reduce proteinuria

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    hypotension
    General Information
    Consider eliminating or adjusting other antihypertensive medications and maintaining appropriate volume status in persons at risk for hypotension. Hypotension was observed in clinical trials with sparsentan. Development of transient hypotension is not a contraindication to further dosing of sparsentan, which can be given once blood pressure has been stabilized.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Avoid use of sparsentan in individuals with any hepatic impairment or hepatic failure (i.e., Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C) because of the potential risk of serious liver injury. Avoid initiation of sparsentan in individuals with elevated hepatic enzymes (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) as monitoring hepatotoxicity may be more difficult and these individuals may be at increased risk for serious hepatotoxicity. To decrease the risk of potential serious hepatotoxicity, measure serum hepatic enzyme concentrations and total bilirubin prior to initiation of treatment and every 3 months during treatment with sparsentan.
    Headline
    heart failure, hypovolemia, renal disease
    General Information
    Sparsentan can cause hyperkalemia. Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include advanced renal disease or concomitant use of potassium-increasing medications (e.g., potassium supplements, potassium-sparing diuretics) or using potassium-containing salt substitutes are at increased risk for developing hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium periodically and treat appropriately. Individuals whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., individuals with renal artery stenosis, chronic renal disease, severe heart failure, or hypovolemia) may be at risk for developing acute renal failure on sparsentan. Monitor renal function periodically and consider withholding or discontinuing sparsentan therapy in individuals who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function while receiving sparsentan. Use of sparsentan has not been evaluated in individuals with heart failure; fluid retention has been observed in sparsentan clinical trials.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Sparsentan is contraindicated in pregnancy. If pregnancy is detected, discontinue sparsentan as soon as possible. Based on data from animal reproductive toxicity studies, sparsentan may cause fetal harm, including birth defects and fetal death. Oral administration of sparsentan to pregnant rats throughout organogenesis at 10 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) in mg/day caused teratogenic effects, including craniofacial malformations, skeletal abnormalities, increased embryo-fetal lethality, and reduced fetal weights. Oral administration of sparsentan throughout organogenesis in pregnant rabbits resulted in maternal death and abortions at doses of 10 and 40 mg/kg/day, which provided exposures approximately 0.1 and 0.2 times the AUC and the MRHD, respectively. Available data from postmarketing reports and published literature over decades of use with other endothelin receptor antagonists have not identified an increased risk of fetal harm; however, these data are limited and preclude establishing a reliable estimate of the risk of adverse fetal and neonatal outcomes with endothelin receptor antagonist use during pregnancy.
    Headline
    embryo-fetal toxicity, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with sparsentan. Sparsentan may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception prior to initiation of treatment, while taking sparsentan, and for 2 weeks after the last dose. Also advise pre-pubertal individuals and/or their guardian(s) of the fetal risk and the need to use effective contraception once they reach reproductive potential. Advise people who may become pregnant to contact their health care team immediately for pregnancy testing if onset of menses is delayed or pregnancy is suspected during sparsentan treatment. Educate and counsel people who may become pregnant on the use of emergency contraception in the event of unprotected sex or contraceptive failure. If the pregnancy test is positive, discuss risks related to the pregnancy and fetus with the individual.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of sparsentan during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of sparsentan in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Sparsentan has the potential to cause serious side effects, including hypotension, in the breast-fed child.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Sparsentan is contraindicated in pregnancy. If pregnancy is detected, discontinue sparsentan as soon as possible. Based on data from animal reproductive toxicity studies, sparsentan may cause fetal harm, including birth defects and fetal death. Oral administration of sparsentan to pregnant rats throughout organogenesis at 10 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) in mg/day caused teratogenic effects, including craniofacial malformations, skeletal abnormalities, increased embryo-fetal lethality, and reduced fetal weights. Oral administration of sparsentan throughout organogenesis in pregnant rabbits resulted in maternal death and abortions at doses of 10 and 40 mg/kg/day, which provided exposures approximately 0.1 and 0.2 times the AUC and the MRHD, respectively. Available data from postmarketing reports and published literature over decades of use with other endothelin receptor antagonists have not identified an increased risk of fetal harm; however, these data are limited and preclude establishing a reliable estimate of the risk of adverse fetal and neonatal outcomes with endothelin receptor antagonist use during pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of sparsentan during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of sparsentan in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Sparsentan has the potential to cause serious side effects, including hypotension, in the breast-fed child.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with sparsentan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and adagrasib. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of sparsentan and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of sparsentan. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Aliskiren: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and aliskiren is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and aliskiren is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Ambrisentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium-sparing diuretics. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium-sparing diuretics. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and apalutamide due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with aprepitant/fosaprepitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Aprocitentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and atazanavir. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and atazanavir. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Atrasentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Azilsartan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if sparsentan and baxdrostat are used together. Both medications increase serum potassium concentrations and concomitant use may increase the risk for hyperkalemia.
Benazepril: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with berotralstat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Bosentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of sparsentan as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; sparsentan is a weak CYP2B6 inducer. Concomitant use decreased bupropion overall exposure by 33%.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of sparsentan as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; sparsentan is a weak CYP2B6 inducer. Concomitant use decreased bupropion overall exposure by 33%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Candesartan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Captopril: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and carbamazepine due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and ceritinib. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and chloramphenicol. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ciprofloxacin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and sparsentan due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with conivaptan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with crizotinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Additionally, monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects as concomitant use may also increase sparsentan exposure. Concomitant use increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%. Cyclosporine is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and darunavir. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and darunavir. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and darunavir. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of sparsentan as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; sparsentan is a weak CYP2B6 inducer. Concomitant use decreased bupropion overall exposure by 33%.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP2C19 substrate and sparsentan is a CYP2C19 inducer.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing sparsentan. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with diltiazem is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with sparsentan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with sparsentan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with sparsentan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sparsentan may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sparsentan with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sparsentan with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and drospirenone. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia in high-risk patients, comparable to 25 mg of spironolactone.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and drospirenone. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia in high-risk patients, comparable to 25 mg of spironolactone.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and drospirenone. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia in high-risk patients, comparable to 25 mg of spironolactone.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and drospirenone. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia in high-risk patients, comparable to 25 mg of spironolactone.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and drospirenone. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia in high-risk patients, comparable to 25 mg of spironolactone.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with duvelisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with sparsentan. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of sparsentan. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of sparsentan; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sparsentan may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sparsentan may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sparsentan may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sparsentan may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sparsentan may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and encorafenib due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Endothelin receptor antagonists: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with sparsentan due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and ensitrelvir. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and enzalutamide due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and eplerenone. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with erythromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fedratinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if finerenone and sparsentan are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fluconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fluvoxamine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fosamprenavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Fosinopril: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and sparsentan as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-gp and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during sparsentan treatment due to the risk for increased sparsentan exposure and adverse reactions. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium phosphate. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and idelalisib. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with imatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Iodine; Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Irbesartan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with isavuconazonium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and itraconazole. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sparsentan may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sparsentan with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; sparsentan may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Additionally, monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects as concomitant use may also increase sparsentan exposure. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with letermovir is necessary. Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When letermovir is given with cyclosporine the combined effect on CYP3A substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Lisinopril: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and lonafarnib. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with sparsentan. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with sparsentan. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and ritonavir. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Losartan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Macitentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with sparsentan. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If sparsentan is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP2B6; sparsentan is a weak CYP2B6 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If sparsentan is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Concomitant use can decrease methadone exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; sparsentan is a moderate CYP2C19 inducer and a weak CYP2B6 and CYP2C9 inducer.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and mifepristone. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and mitotane due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Moexipril: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with sparsentan. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and sparsentan. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and nefazodone. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and nelfinavir. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with netupitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with nilotinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and ritonavir. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with nirogacestat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Olmesartan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and sparsentan due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit P-gp.
Penicillin G: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and penicillin G potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia. Penicillin G potassium contains 1.7 mEq of potassium per million units of penicillin G activity.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Perindopril: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and posaconazole. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk for adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and posaconazole is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Potassium Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Potassium Gluconate: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Potassium Phosphate: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium phosphate. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium phosphate. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Potassium: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium-sparing diuretics. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and sparsentan due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Quinapril: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Ramipril: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and relacorilant. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and sparsentan. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer sparsentan at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and sparsentan. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer sparsentan at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with sparsentan due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and ribociclib. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and ribociclib. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and rifampin due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and rifapentine due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with sparsentan; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and ritonavir. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and saquinavir. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk for adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and saquinavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and sparsentan due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of sparsentan. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium-sparing diuretics. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium-sparing diuretics. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and St. John's wort due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and trimethoprim. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia. The risk for trimethoprim-associated hyperkalemia is greatest in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia such as age greater than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Telmisartan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sparsentan may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and tipranavir. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk for adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and tipranavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Tolvaptan: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and tolvaptan. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia. The risk for hyperkalemia may be greatest during and immediately following tolvaptan's peak aquaretic effect as a result of an acute reduction in extracellular fluid volume.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sparsentan with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; sparsentan may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Trandolapril: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium-sparing diuretics. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium-sparing diuretics. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Trimethoprim: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and trimethoprim. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia. The risk for trimethoprim-associated hyperkalemia is greatest in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia such as age greater than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and tucatinib. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with sparsentan. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Valsartan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with sparsentan due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of sparsentan. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of sparsentan is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of sparsentan is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and voriconazole. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with sparsentan is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The active metabolite of warfarin, the S-enantiomer, is a CYP2C9 substrate and sparsentan is a CYP2C9 inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dizziness, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension
    General Information
    Hypotension (including orthostatic hypotension) was reported in 16% to 21% of sparsentan-treated subjects in clinical trials. There was a greater incidence of hypotension-associated adverse events, including dizziness (14% to 16%), in subjects treated with sparsentan compared to irbesartan in clinical trials. Some of these hypotension-associated adverse events were noted to be serious. Consider a dose reduction or interruption in sparsentan therapy if hypotension develops despite elimination or reduction of other antihypertensive medications. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further dosing of sparsentan, which can be given once blood pressure has stabilized.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fluid retention, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Fluid retention has been observed in clinical trials with sparsentan. Peripheral edema was reported with sparsentan in 16% to 23% of subjects in clinical trials. If clinically significant fluid retention develops, evaluate to determine the cause and the potential need to initiate or modify the dose of diuretic treatment, then consider modifying the dose of sparsentan.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fluid retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes, defined as alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) concentrations more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), were reported with sparsentan in 3.5% to 4% of subjects in clinical trials. Elevated hepatic enzymes have also occurred with rechallenge of sparsentan. Cases with concurrent elevations in bilirubin concentrations more than 2 times ULN or hepatic failure have not been observed in sparsentan-treated subjects in clinical trials. However, some endothelin receptor antagonists have caused elevations of aminotransferases, hepatotoxicity, and hepatic failure. Advise individuals with symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, right upper quadrant pain, fatigue, anorexia, jaundice, dark urine, fever, or itching) to stop sparsentan treatment immediately and seek medical attention. If hepatic enzyme concentrations are abnormal at any time during treatment, temporarily discontinue sparsentan and monitor as recommended. To decrease the risk of potential serious hepatotoxicity, measure serum hepatic enzyme concentrations and total bilirubin prior to initiation of treatment and every 3 months during treatment with sparsentan. Consider re-initiation of sparsentan only when hepatic enzyme and bilirubin concentrations return to pretreatment values and only in individuals who have not experienced clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acute kidney injury, hyperkalemia
    General Information
    Acute kidney injury was reported in 4% to 6% of sparsentan-treated subjects in clinical trials. Monitor renal function periodically and consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in individuals who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function while receiving sparsentan. Hyperkalemia was reported with sparsentan in 17% to 20% of subjects in clinical trials. Monitor serum potassium periodically and treat appropriately. Dosage reduction or discontinuation of sparsentan may be required.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acute kidney injury
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia
    General Information
    Anemia was reported in 8% to 13% of sparsentan-treated subjects in clinical trials. The incidence of a hemoglobin decrease of more than 2 g/dL compared to baseline and below the lower limit of normal was greater for sparsentan-treated subjects (19% to 45%) compared to irbesartan-treated subjects (13% to 18%) in clinical trials. Hemodilution is thought to contribute to the decrease in hemoglobin. There were no treatment discontinuations due to anemia or decreased hemoglobin in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    teratogenesis
    General Information
    Based on data from animal reproduction studies, sparsentan may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant person. In pregnant rats, oral administration of sparsentan throughout organogenesis at doses of 80, 160, and 240 mg/kg/day resulted in dose-dependent teratogenesis, including craniofacial malformations, skeletal abnormalities, increased embryo-fetal lethality, and reduced fetal weights at all doses tested. The area under the curve (AUC) at the lowest dose tested (80 mg/kg/day) was approximately 10 times the AUC at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 400 mg/day. In pregnant rabbits, oral administration of sparsentan throughout organogenesis at doses of 2.5, 10, and 40 mg/kg/day resulted in maternal death and abortions at 10 and 40 mg/kg/day, which provided exposures approximately 0.1 and 0.2 times the AUC at the MRHD, respectively. An increase in a fetal variation (supernumerary cervical ribs) occurred at the high dose of 40 mg/kg/day. In the pre- and postnatal development study in rats, oral administration of sparsentan during pregnancy and the lactational period at doses of 5, 20, or 80 mg/kg/day resulted in maternal death, body weight loss/reduced body weight gain, and adverse clinical signs at 80 mg/kg/day. An increase in pup deaths occurred at 80 mg/kg/day (approximately 10 times the AUC at MRHD) during the neonatal period through weaning, and decreased growth occurred at 20 mg/kg/day or more (approximately 2.6 times the AUC at the MRHD) after weaning. The no-observed-adverse-effect-level (NOAEL) for pre- and postnatal development in rats was 5 mg/kg/day, approximately 0.7 times the AUC at the MRHD.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      teratogenesis
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Sparsentan is an oral endothelin and angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated to slow kidney function decline in individuals with primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) who are at risk for rapid disease progression and to reduce proteinuria in individuals with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) without nephrotic syndrome. Sparsentan is associated with elevated hepatic enzymes as well as risk for major birth defects based on animal data. Sparsentan was FDA-approved in February 2023.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Sparsentan is an endothelin and angiotensin II receptor antagonist that antagonizes the endothelin type A receptor (ETAR) and the angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R). Sparsentan has high affinity for both the ETAR [inhibitory constant (Ki) = 12.8 nanometers (nM)] and the AT1R (Ki = 0.36 nM), and more than 500-fold selectivity for these receptors over the endothelin type B and angiotensin II subtype 2 receptors. Endothelin-1 and angiotensin II are thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) by the ETAR and AT1R, respectively.
 
Pharmacodynamics
The exposure-response (E-R) relationship between sparsentan exposure and the percentage reduction from baseline in urine protein/creatinine ratio (UPCR) at Week 36 was not exposure-dependent across the observed exposure range for the recommended dose regimen. E-R relationships were not observed for hypotension of any grade, peripheral edema worst grade, and the incidence of hyperkalemia of any grade across the sparsentan exposure range for IgAN and FSGS populations.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After administration of a single oral dose of sparsentan 400 mg, the mean maximum concentration (Cmax) is 7 mcg/mL and systemic exposure (AUC) is 83 mcg x hour/mL. After daily doses of sparsentan 400 mg, the steady-state mean Cmax is 6.5 mcg/mL and AUC is 63.6 mcg x hour/mL. After administration of a single oral dose of sparsentan 800 mg, the mean Cmax is 8.6 mcg/mL and AUC is 161 mcg x hour/mL. After daily doses of sparsentan 800 mg, the steady-state mean Cmax is 9.8 mcg/mL and AUC is 96.9 mcg x hour/mL. The median time to peak plasma concentration (Tmax) is approximately 3 hours (range: 2 to 8 hours) after a single oral dose of sparsentan 400 mg. Steady-state plasma concentrations are achieved within 7 days with no accumulation of exposure at the approved recommended dose. These results were comparable when sparsentan was administered orally as a whole tablet or as a crushed tablet in water. Administration of sparsentan with a high fat, high calorie meal (1,000 kcal, 50% fat) increases sparsentan AUC and Cmax by 22% and 108%, respectively, after administration of a single oral 800 mg dose. Clinically significant differences in sparsentan pharmacokinetics are not observed after administration of a single 200 mg dose with a high fat, high calorie meal.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Clinically significant differences in sparsentan pharmacokinetics were not observed in mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or B). The effect of severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) on sparsentan pharmacokinetics has not been studied.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Clinically significant differences in sparsentan pharmacokinetics were not observed with mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/minute/1.73m2). The effect of severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73m2) on sparsentan pharmacokinetics has not been studied.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Clinically significant differences in sparsentan pharmacokinetics were not observed based on age (8 to 75 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Clinically significant differences in sparsentan pharmacokinetics were not observed based on sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Clinically significant differences in sparsentan pharmacokinetics were not observed based on race.
  Text
  Sparsentan is administered orally. Protein binding of sparsentan is more than 99% and the Vd at steady-state is 61.4 L and 86.5 L at 400 mg and 800 mg doses, respectively. CYP3A is the major hepatic isoenzyme responsible for sparsentan metabolism. After a single dose of radiolabeled sparsentan 400 mg, approximately 80% of the dose is recovered in feces (9% unchanged) and 2% in urine (negligible amount unchanged). The apparent clearance (CL/F) of sparsentan after the initial 400 mg dose is 3.88 L/hour and increases to 5.11 L/hour at steady-state. After the initial 800 mg dose, the CL/F of sparsentan is 5.47 L/hour and increases to 7.21 L/hour at steady-state. The clearance of sparsentan is time-dependent, which may be related to the medication inducing its own metabolism over time. The half-life of sparsentan is estimated to be 9.6 hours at steady-state.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A, P-gp
Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate. Additionally, sparsentan is a weak inducer of CYP2B6 and CYP2C9, a moderate inducer of CYP2C19, and a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp).

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Swallow tablets whole with water prior to the morning or evening meal.
For individuals unable to swallow whole tablets, sparsentan may be crushed and suspended in water immediately before administration prior to the morning or evening meal.
Crush the sparsentan tablet in a clean pill crusher or mortar and pestle.
Suspend the crushed tablet in half of a cup of water and mix.
Administration of sparsentan with other liquids has not been studied and is not recommended.
The crushed tablet will not dissolve.
Orally administer the entire prepared suspension immediately. If any portion of the tablet is left in the cup, add a small amount of water to the cup, swirl, and swallow immediately.
Storage: Do not store suspension for later use.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, administer the next dose at the regularly scheduled time. Do not administer double or extra doses.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Weighing more than 50 kg: 800 mg/day PO.
Weighing 50 kg or less: 400 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Weighing more than 50 kg: 800 mg/day PO.
Weighing 50 kg or less: 400 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Weighing more than 50 kg: 800 mg/day PO.
Weighing 50 kg or less: 400 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    8 to 12 years weighing more than 50 kg: 800 mg/day PO.
8 to 12 years weighing 50 kg or less: 400 mg/day PO.
1 to 7 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Alanine aminotransferase (ALT)/aspartate aminotransferase (AST) concentrations more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) and 8 times or less the ULN
Confirm AST/ALT elevation with a repeat measure. If confirmed, interrupt treatment and monitor hepatic enzyme concentrations and bilirubin at least weekly, and INR as needed, until the ALT/AST concentrations return to pretreatment values and the patient is asymptomatic.
Do not resume treatment if any of the following occurs without other cause determined:
ALT or AST more than 3 times ULN and total bilirubin more than 2 times ULN or INR more than 1.5.
ALT or AST more than 3 times ULN, with symptoms of fatigue, nausea, vomiting, right upper quadrant pain or tenderness, fever, rash, and/or eosinophilia (more than 5% eosinophils).
ALT or AST more than 5 times ULN for more than 2 weeks.
If treatment is resumed, initiate sparsentan at 50% of the recommended dose once daily, with reassessment of hepatic enzyme concentrations and bilirubin within 3 days. Close monitoring is required in these patients.
ALT/AST concentrations more than 8 times ULN
Stop treatment permanently if no other cause determined.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
