=== Naratriptan (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2210)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Naratriptan is an antimigraine agent similar to sumatriptan but with a longer half life and a corresponding longer duration of action.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 5 mg/day PO or per 24 hour period. The safety of treating more than 4 headaches in a 30-day period is unknown.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bowel ischemia, colitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, gastroesophageal reflux, hemorrhoids, peptic ulcer, sialadenitis, aphasia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dysgeusia, fatigue, hyperesthesia, hyperthermia, hypoesthesia, impaired cognition, malaise, neuritis, paresthesias, seizures, serotonin syndrome, tremor, vertigo, bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, infection, tracheitis, hearing loss

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Naratriptan is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to naratriptan or any of its inactive ingredients. Rare, but serious adverse cardiac effects, including heart attacks, life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm, and death have been reported within a few hours of receiving...

Brand Names
  - Amerge

Dosage Forms
  - Naratriptan Hydrochloride 1mg Oral tablet
  - Naratriptan Hydrochloride 2.5mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 or 2.5 mg PO as a single dose. May repeat dose once after 4 hours if headache returns. Max: 5 mg/day. The safety of treating an average of more than 4 headaches/30 days has not been established. Guidelines classify naratriptan as having established efficacy for the treatment of acute migraine.
    Heading
    For the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 mg PO twice daily for 5 days starting 2 days before the expected onset of menses and repeated monthly with each menstrual cycle. Guidelines consider naratriptan as probably effective for menstrual migraine prophylaxis.
    Heading
    For menstrual migraine prophylaxis†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Naratriptan is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to naratriptan or any of its inactive ingredients.
 
Rare, but serious adverse cardiac effects, including heart attacks, life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm, and death have been reported within a few hours of receiving 5-HT1 agonists. Many of these patients had concurrent cardiovascular risk factors; therefore, it is difficult to assess causality. Naratriptan and other 5-HT agonists may cause coronary vasospasm, and therefore are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD), angina pectoris, vasospastic angina such as Prinzmetal's variant angina, arteriosclerosis, silent myocardial ischemia, acute myocardial infarction, history of myocardial infarction, or other significant cardiac disease. Patients with CAD risk factors (e.g., high blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, obesity, tobacco smoking, strong family history, female with surgical or physiological menopause, or male > 40 years old) should not be given naratriptan unless a cardiac evaluation determines that they are reasonably free of CAD, myocardial ischemia, or other significant cardiac disease. Patients who are long-term users of naratriptan and who have or acquire risk factors predictive of CAD should undergo periodic cardiac evaluation. For patients with risk factors predictive of CAD who are determined to have a satisfactory cardiac evaluation, the first dose of naratriptan should be given in a controlled setting such as a clinic or physician's office. ECG monitoring is strongly encouraged due to the possibility of asymptomatic cardiac ischemia during the time immediately after naratriptan administration in patients with risk factors. In addition, patients with cardiac arrhythmias should not receive naratriptan because rhythm disturbances have been reported with the use of 5-HT agonists. Patients with symptomatic Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or cardiac arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders should not receive naratriptan because serious cardiac events have been reported within a few hours of receiving 5-HT1 agonists.
 
Naratriptan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. Serotonin agonists may produce significant increases in blood pressure in patients with or without a history of hypertension.
 
Naratriptan is contraindicated in patients with peripheral vascular disease, including ischemic bowel disease (ischemic colitis) and Raynaud's disease. Peripheral vascular ischemia and colonic ischemia with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea have been reported with 5-HT1 agonists.
 
Naratriptan is contraindicated in patients with cerebrovascular disease (i.e., stroke or transient ischemic attacks) and should be avoided in the presence of intracranial bleeding due to the vasospastic effects of 5-HT agonists. While stroke, cerebral hemorrhage, and related fatalities have been reported after the administration of 5-HT1 agonists, these events may have been present prior to administration and the drug was mistakenly given in response to the cerebrovascular symptoms. However, patients with migraines may be at an increased risk for cerebrovascular events (e.g. stroke, hemorrhage).
 
Naratriptan is contraindicated in patients with basilar/hemiplegic migraine.
 
Naratriptan is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment, severe renal disease, or renal failure (creatinine clearance 65 years of age.
 
Patients should be advised against driving or operating machinery until they know how naratriptan will affect them.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    basilar/hemiplegic migraine
    General Information
    Naratriptan is contraindicated in basilar/hemiplegic migraine due to a higher risk of stroke. Before treating headaches in individuals not previously diagnosed with migraine, and in individuals with migraine who present with atypical symptoms, exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    cardiac accessory conduction pathway syndrome, coronary artery disease, coronary artery vasospasm, diabetes mellitus, family history of ischemic heart disease, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, males, obesity, peripheral vascular disease, postmenopausal females, stroke, tobacco smoking
    General Information
    Naratriptan is contraindicated in individuals with ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (i.e., angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, documented silent ischemia), coronary artery vasospasm (including Prinzmetal angina), arrhythmias associated with cardiac accessory conduction pathway syndrome (including Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome), uncontrolled hypertension, peripheral vascular disease (including ischemic bowel disease), or a history of stroke (including transient ischemic attack). Perform a cardiovascular (CV) evaluation in triptan-naive individuals who have multiple CV risk factors (e.g., increased age, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, tobacco smoking, obesity, strong family history of ischemic heart disease, postmenopausal females, males older than 40 years) before administering naratriptan. For individuals with risk factors who have a negative CV evaluation, consider administering the first dose of naratriptan in a medically-supervised setting and obtaining an ECG immediately after administration. Consider periodic CV evaluation in intermittent long-term users of naratriptan who have CV risk factors. Before treating headaches in individuals not previously diagnosed with migraine, and in individuals with migraine who present with atypical symptoms, exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions; individuals with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events (e.g., stroke, hemorrhage, transient ischemic attack). Significant blood pressure elevation has been reported on rare occasions in individuals with or without a history of hypertension receiving serotonin receptor agonists (triptans). Monitor blood pressure during naratriptan treatment.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Naratriptan is contraindicated in individuals with renal failure (creatinine clearance less than 15 mL/minute) due to decreased clearance of the drug. Dosage adjustment is required for mild to moderate renal impairment.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Use caution with naratriptan dose selection for a geriatric adult, usually starting at the low dose, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Perform a cardiovascular (CV) evaluation in triptan-naive geriatric adults who have other CV risk factors (e.g., diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, smoking, obesity, strong family history of CAD) before administering naratriptan. For geriatric adults with risk factors who have a negative CV evaluation, consider administering the first dose of naratriptan in a medically-supervised setting and obtaining an ECG immediately after administration. Consider periodic CV evaluation in intermittent long-term users of naratriptan who have CV risk factors.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Naratriptan is contraindicated in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class C). Dosage adjustment is required for mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A and Child-Pugh class B).
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration if they experience dizziness, drowsiness, or weakness after taking naratriptan.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data describing the developmental risk associated with naratriptan use during pregnancy. The numbers of exposed pregnancy outcomes collected during a sumatriptan, naratriptan, or sumatriptan; naproxen pregnancy registry over a period of 15 years, and smaller observational studies, are insufficient to inform a level of risk for naratriptan in pregnant individuals. Of 52 first-trimester exposures and 5 second-trimester exposures to naratriptan, the rates of major birth defects were 2.2% (1/46, 95% CI: 0.1% to 13%) for first-trimester exposure and 2% (1/51, 95% CI: 0.1% to 11.8%) for exposure in any trimester. A single infant exposed to naratriptan and sumatriptan during the first trimester was born with a ventricular septal defect. Congenital deformity of the hand was observed in an infant with first-trimester exposure to naratriptan in a study of Swedish pregnancy registry data. In animal studies in rats and rabbits, naratriptan produced developmental toxicity, including fetal abnormalities and embryolethality. The lowest doses producing toxicity were associated with exposures 2.5- (rabbit) to 11-times (rat) the maximum recommended daily dose in humans. Studies have suggested that people with migraines may be at higher risk of pre-eclampsia during pregnancy.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use naratriptan with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of naratriptan in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Naratriptan is present in animal milk. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition. Other agents, such as sumatriptan, may be preferred.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data describing the developmental risk associated with naratriptan use during pregnancy. The numbers of exposed pregnancy outcomes collected during a sumatriptan, naratriptan, or sumatriptan; naproxen pregnancy registry over a period of 15 years, and smaller observational studies, are insufficient to inform a level of risk for naratriptan in pregnant individuals. Of 52 first-trimester exposures and 5 second-trimester exposures to naratriptan, the rates of major birth defects were 2.2% (1/46, 95% CI: 0.1% to 13%) for first-trimester exposure and 2% (1/51, 95% CI: 0.1% to 11.8%) for exposure in any trimester. A single infant exposed to naratriptan and sumatriptan during the first trimester was born with a ventricular septal defect. Congenital deformity of the hand was observed in an infant with first-trimester exposure to naratriptan in a study of Swedish pregnancy registry data. In animal studies in rats and rabbits, naratriptan produced developmental toxicity, including fetal abnormalities and embryolethality. The lowest doses producing toxicity were associated with exposures 2.5- (rabbit) to 11-times (rat) the maximum recommended daily dose in humans. Studies have suggested that people with migraines may be at higher risk of pre-eclampsia during pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use naratriptan with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of naratriptan in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Naratriptan is present in animal milk. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition. Other agents, such as sumatriptan, may be preferred.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dihydrocodeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering alfentanil with naratriptan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Almotriptan: (Contraindicated) Almotriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with naratriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering benzhydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Bromocriptine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot derivatives, such as bromocriptine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Some ergot derivatives and serotonin-receptor antagonists have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering buprenorphine with serotonergic-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering buprenorphine with serotonergic-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant buspirone and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Cabergoline: (Major) When possible, avoid concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists (triptans) within 24 hours of cabergoline administration to minimize the risk for serious coronary ischemia. Ergot alkaloids have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions which may be additive with the effects of triptans. The risk for vasospastic adverse reactions may be less with cabergoline, a semisynthetic ergot alkaloid derivative, than with other ergot alkaloids as cabergoline is a relatively selective dopamine agonist. In select patients, the combination of cabergoline and "triptans" has been utilized in the management of some headache types, but more data are needed regarding safety and efficacy.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering naratriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and SSRIs. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after initiation of SSRI treatment or any dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of cocaine with other drugs that have CNS serotonergic properties, such as serotonin-receptor agonists, could potentiate serotonin neurotransmission, and result in serotonergic side effects or rarely, serotonin syndrome. The actions of cocaine are presumed to include inhibition of presynaptic reuptake of serotonin. In most medical use cases, cocaine would be administered topically, and this interaction would not be of concern, as serotonin-agonists for migraine are used mostly "as needed". Illicit use of cocaine is of potential concern for interactions.
Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering desvenlafaxine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Droxidopa: (Major) Coadministration of droxidopa with other agents that increase blood pressure, such as serotonin-receptor agonists, would be expected to increase the risk for supine hypertension. Monitor supine blood pressure. Reduce or discontinue droxidopa if supine hypertension persists. If supine hypertension is not well-managed, droxidopa may increase the risk of cardiovascular events.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant duloxetine and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Eletriptan: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with naratriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Ergoloid Mesylates: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as ergoloid mesylates, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering naratriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and SSRIs. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after initiation of SSRI treatment or any dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and serotonin receptor agonists with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) If concomitant use of fentanyl and naratriptan is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering naratriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and SSRIs. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after initiation of SSRI treatment or any dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering naratriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and SSRIs. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after initiation of SSRI treatment or any dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Frovatriptan: (Contraindicated) Naratriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with frovatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydromorphone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering naratriptan with isocarboxazid. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue naratriptan and isocarboxazid and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levorphanol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Linezolid: (Major) Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a reversible, non-selective inhibitor of MAO and should not be administered with serotonin-receptor agonists. The monoamine oxidase type A enzyme metabolizes serotonin. Non-selective MAO inhibitors increase the plasma concentrations of these drugs and some of their active metabolites, thus increasing levels of serotonin. This interaction could lead to serotonin syndrome. The manufacturers of serotonin agonists contraindicate the administration of their drugs to patients receiving non-selective MAO inhibitors like linezolid or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of a MAO inhibitor.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation or dosage increase, during concomitant lisdexamfetamine and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk of serotonin syndrome.
Lithium: (Major) If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome and inform patients of the increased risk. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented. There is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of drugs with central serotonergic properties such as lithium and serotonin-receptor agonists. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include autonomic instability (e.g., labile blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, dizziness, hyperthermia), mental status changes (e.g., delirium, confusion, coma), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), gastrointestinal effects (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), seizures, and in rare cases, death.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) Naratriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with rizatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering meperidine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Methadone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering methadone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Methylene Blue: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Methylergonovine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering milnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Mirtazapine: (Major) The coadministration of serotonergic antidepressants with serotonin-agonists has sometimes resulted in serotonin syndrome. Careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, and hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination) and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea). Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome, which includes hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, autonomic instability with possible rapid fluctuation of vital signs, and mental status changes. Discontinue the serotonergic agents immediately if serotonin syndrome reactions occur and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment.
Morphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering morphine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering nalbuphine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Nefazodone: (Major) Medications that augment release, decrease the metabolism of, or decrease the reuptake of serotonin, like the serotonin-receptor agonists, may interact with nefazodone by causing serotonin-related side effects, including serotonin syndrome. Whenever possible, these drug combinations should be avoided. If serotonin-syndrome is suspected, offending agents should be discontinued.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering naratriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and SSRIs. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after initiation of SSRI treatment or any dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and serotonin-receptor agonists is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxymorphone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering naratriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and SSRIs. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after initiation of SSRI treatment or any dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering naratriptan with phenelzine. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after initiation of MAOI treatment or any dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Rasagiline: (Minor) Use together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Unlike some serotonin-receptor agonists, naratriptan is not a substrate for MAO; therefore, its metabolism is not affected by MAOIs. Therefore, MAOI-based interactions appear to be less likely with naratriptan. Since rasagiline selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with naratriptan would be expected with normal prescription use. However, there is a decline in MAO-B selectivity with increasing rasagiline doses. Monitor for potential serotonin-related side effects. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering remifentanil with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) Naratriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with rizatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Concurrent use of oral contraceptives (e.g, those containing ethinyl estradiol) reduced naratriptan clearance by 32% and volume of distribution by 22% during clinical trials. The decrease in clearance resulted in slightly higher plasma levels of naratriptan. A clinical significance to this interaction has not been established. Estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan in postmenopausal females.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering naratriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and SSRIs. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after initiation of SSRI treatment or any dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant naratriptan and selegiline use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering naratriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and SSRIs. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after initiation of SSRI treatment or any dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Although unlikely to occur during monotherapy with serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans"), coadministration with serotonergic agents like St. John's Wort may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Inform the patient of the increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering sufentanil with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
SUMAtriptan: (Contraindicated) Naratriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with sumatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Contraindicated) Naratriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with sumatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tapentadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
traMADol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, tranylcypromine is contraindicated for use with naratriptan. Tranylcypromine should not be used within 4 to 5 half-lives of discontinuing treatment with naratriptan.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant trazodone and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Tryptophan, 5-Hydroxytryptophan: (Contraindicated) Combining medications that potentiate serotonin neurotransmission, such as serotonin-receptor agonists and tryptophan, could result in serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome, while uncommon, can be serious and consists of symptoms such as mental status changes, diaphoresis, tremor, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, and fever.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant venlafaxine and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Vilazodone: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vilazodone with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) with serotonin-receptor agonists. Of the 27 cases reviewed by the FDA, 2 were considered life-threatening and 13 required hospitalization. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident. Eight of 27 cases involved a recent dose increase or addition of another serotonergic drug to the regimen, with a median onset of 1 day (range: 10 minutes to 6 days). It is thought that the interaction between SNRIs or SSRIs and serotonin-receptor agonists is the result of increased serotonergic activity by each of the drug classes. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. At least 6 patients taking an SSRI antidepressant are known to have received sumatriptan for migraine where no apparent adverse effects were seen. In another case report, the addition of fluoxetine lead to loss of migraine control with sumatriptan. Patients receiving vilazodone and a serotonin-receptor agonist should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and during dosage increases. Vilazodone and the serotonin-receptor agonist should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.
ZOLMitriptan: (Contraindicated) Naratriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with zolmitriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  During clinical trials naratriptan was well tolerated, with most adverse reactions being mild and transient. The overall percentage of patients experiencing adverse effects was similar to that of placebo. Compared to oral sumatriptan, naratriptan appears to have better tolerability.The most common adverse effects (occuring in >=2% of patients) included paresthesias, dizziness, drowsiness, malaise, fatigue, and throat/neck symptoms. Less common adverse reactions (occuring in >=1% of patients) included hyposalivation or xerostomia, and feelings of pressure/tightness/heaviness in the chest. Nausea/vomiting is more common with naratriptian 2.5 mg than 1 mg. Nausea was seen in 4—5% of patients, which was not significantly different than placebo.5-HT agonists have been associated with serious cardiac problems including coronary vasospasm, transient myocardia ischemia, myocardial infarction, ventricular tachycardia, and ventricular fibrillation. Chest pressure syndrome or chest pain (unspecified) has also been reported during 5-HT1 agonist therapy. In naratriptan trials, cardiac problems such as tachyarrhythmias and palpitations were uncommon, occuring in <=1% of patients. However, 4 out of 3500 patients in clinical trials had asymptomatic ischemic ECG changes following a single dose of naratriptan. At least one of these was believed to be due to coronary vasospasm. ECG changes included PR prolongation, QT prolongation, ST-T wave changes, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. Although these events are very rare, patients with cardiac disease and other risk factors should not use naratriptan (see Contraindications).The incidence of blood pressure elevation during clinical trials was generally rare, and occurred in <=1% of patients. There was, however, an increase in systolic pressure of 32 mmHg in one patient after a 2.5mg dose of naratriptan. Although significant blood pressure elevations are uncommon, naratriptan should not be used in patients with uncontrolled hypertension (see Contraindications).Naratriptan was shown to bind to the melanin of the eye in rats, suggesting possible accumulation and toxicity over time. Although no cases have been reported in humans, there is a possibility of long term ophthalmologic effects.Other vasospastic effects associated with naratriptan include peripheral vascular ischemia, ischemic colitis, cramping, bowel ischemia, abdominal pain, and bloody diarrhea. Cramping and ischemic colitis have also been reported following sumatriptan with a median time to onset of 48 hours following administration of the drug. Pharmacologically, it seems plausible that bowel ischemia may be a class-related effect of serotonin (5-HT1) receptor agonists.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, bowel ischemia, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, elevated hepatic enzymes, esophagitis, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, hemorrhoids, nausea, peptic ulcer, sialadenitis, vomiting
    General Information
    During clinical trials of naratriptan for the treatment of acute migraines in adults, nausea occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving 1—2.5 mg of naratriptan and more frequently than in those receiving placebo (4—5% vs. 4%). Overall, gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms were reported in 6—7% of those in the active treatment groups compared to 5% of those in the placebo groups. GI effects reported in at least 1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation included hyposalivation and vomiting. Effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients included dyspepsia, diarrhea, GI discomfort and abdominal pain, gastroenteritis, and constipation. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included elevated hepatic enzymes, abnormal bilirubin levels, hemorrhoids, gastritis, esophagitis, salivary gland inflammation (sialadenitis), oral itching and irritation, regurgitation, gastroesophageal reflux, and peptic ulcer. Ischemic colitis has been reported during post-market use. Ischemic colitis may be associated with cramping, abdominal pain, and bloody diarrhea. Cramping, bowel ischemia, and ischemic colitis have also been reported following administration of other 5-HT1 agonists, such as sumatriptan, with a median time to onset of 48 hours following administration of the drug. Pharmacologically, it seems plausible that bowel ischemia may be a class-related effect of serotonin (5-HT1) receptor agonists.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bowel ischemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      esophagitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hemorrhoids
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peptic ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sialadenitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    aphasia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dysgeusia, fatigue, hyperesthesia, hyperthermia, hypoesthesia, impaired cognition, malaise, neuritis, paresthesias, seizures, serotonin syndrome, tremor, vertigo
    General Information
    During clinical trials of naratriptan for the treatment of acute migraines in adults, the following centrally-mediated effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving 1—2.5 mg of naratriptan and more frequently than in those receiving placebo: dizziness (1—2% vs 1%), drowsiness (1—2% vs < 1%), malaise/fatigue (2% vs 1%), and atypical sensation (2—4% vs 1%), and paresthesias (1—2% vs < 1%). Overall, neurological symptoms were reported in 4—7% of those in the active treatment groups compared to 3% of those in the placebo groups. CNS or atypical sensations reported in at least 1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation included vertigo and warm/cold temperature sensations. Effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients included tremor, cognitive function disorders (impaired cognition), sleep disorders, disorders of equilibrium, burning/stinging sensation, and feeling strange. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included compressed nerve syndromes, confusion, sedation, hyperesthesia, coordination disorders, paralysis of cranial nerves, decreased consciousness, dreams, altered sense of taste (dysgeusia), neuralgia, neuritis, aphasia, hypoesthesia, motor retardation, muscle twitching and fasciculation, psychomotor restlessness, and seizures. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during post-market use. Serotonin syndrome may occur particularly during concurrent use of serotonergic agents such as SSRIs or SNRIs. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, elevated blood pressure, hyperthermia, nauseousness, emesis, and diarrhea. Because naratriptan can cause dizziness or drowsiness, patients should be instructed to avoid tasks requiring mental alertness, such as driving or operating heavy machinery, until they know how the drug affects their cognition.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      aphasia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperesthesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neuritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      serotonin syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperthermia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), chest pressure syndrome, coronary vasospasm, hypertension, hypertensive crisis, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, PR prolongation, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), QT prolongation, ST-T wave changes, syncope, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    Life-threatening arrhythmia exacerbation, including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation leading to death, have been reported within a few hours following the administration of 5-HT1 agonists. Discontinue naratriptan if these disturbances occur. Serotonin 5-HT1 agonists have also been associated with other serious cardiac problems including coronary vasospasm, transient myocardial ischemia, and myocardial infarction. In naratriptan trials, cardiac events such as tachyarrhythmias, increased blood pressure (hypertension), syncope, and palpitations were uncommon, occurring in 0.1—1% of patients. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included bradycardia, varicosities, hypotension, and heart murmurs. Dose-related increases in blood pressure have been observed. One patient with mild hypertension experienced a significant increase in blood pressure to 204/144 mmHg after a 10 mg dose. Rarely, hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients with and without a history of hypertension receiving 5-HT1 agonists. Four out of 3500 patients in clinical trials had asymptomatic ischemic ECG changes following a single dose of naratriptan. At least one of these was believed to be due to coronary vasospasm. ECG changes (0.1—1% of patients) included PR prolongation, QT prolongation, ST-T wave changes, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), atrial flutter, and atrial fibrillation. Although these events are very rare, patients with cardiac disease and other risk factors should not use naratriptan (see Contraindications). An 18% increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure and an 8% increase in mean aortic pressure was seen following dosing with naratriptan 1.5 mg SQ in 10 subjects with suspected CAD undergoing cardiac catheterization. Chest pain (unspecified) and a chest pressure syndrome, which includes sensations of chest pain, tightness and or/heaviness and jaw pain and tightness and regional pain and pressure have been reported after administration of 5-HT1 agonists. During clinical trials with naratriptan, pain and pressure sensations involving the throat and neck were reported in 1—2% of patients in the active treatment group versus 1% of patients in the placebo group. Overall, pain and pressure sensations occurred in 2—4% of naratriptan-treated patients compared to 2% of placebo patients. Sensations of pressure, tightness, and heaviness occurred in 1% or more of patients in naratriptan clinical trial evaluations. Angina and myocardial infarction have been reported during post-market use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      atrial flutter
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pressure syndrome
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      coronary vasospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      PR prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      premature ventricular contractions (PVCs)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ST-T wave changes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertensive crisis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, infection, tracheitis
    General Information
    Lower respiratory tract effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation included bronchitis, cough, and pneumonia (infection). Rare effects (< 0.1%) included tracheitis, asthma (bronchospasm), pleuritis, and airway constriction and obstruction. Dyspnea has been reported during post-market use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tracheitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hearing loss, rhinitis, sinusitis, tinnitus
    General Information
    Adverse effects associated with the ear, nose, and throat reported in at least 1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation included infections of the ear, nose, and throat. Effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients included phonophobia, sinusitis, upper respiratory inflammation, and tinnitus. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included allergic rhinitis, labyrinthitis, ear/nose/throat hemorrhage, and hearing difficulty (hearing loss).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hearing loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dehydration, fluid retention, glycosuria, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, hypothyroidism, polydipsia, proteinuria
    General Information
    Metabolic and endocrine effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation included thirst polydipsia, dehydration, and fluid retention. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included hyperlipidemia, hypercholesterolemia, hypothyroidism, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, ketonuria (proteinuria), and parathyroid neoplasm.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fluid retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      glycosuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperlipidemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypothyroidism
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polydipsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, ocular hemorrhage, ocular pain, photophobia, scotomata, visual impairment, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    There have been reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial visual impairment with the use of 5-HT1 agonists. Since visual disorders may be part of a migraine attack, a causal relationship between these events and the use of 5-HT1 agonists have not been clearly established. Photophobia was reported in at least 1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation. Blurred vision was reported in 0.1—1% of patients. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included ocular pain and discomfort, eye pressure sensation, ocular hemorrhage, xerophthalmia, difficulty focusing, and scotomata. Naratriptan was shown to bind to the melanin of the eye in rats, suggesting possible accumulation and toxicity over time. Although no cases have been reported in humans, there is a possibility of long-term ophthalmologic effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photophobia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      scotomata
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anemia, purpura, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    An increase in white blood cells was reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation. Rare hematologic effects (< 0.1%) included thrombocytopenia, quantitative red cell or hemoglobin defects, anemia, and purpura.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, bone pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, peripheral vasoconstriction
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation included myalgia, arthralgia, articular rheumatism, muscle cramps and spasms, and joint and muscle stiffness/tightness/rigidity. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included bone pain and musculoskeletal pain. Serotonin receptor agonists may cause peripheral vasospastic reactions. Patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of peripheral vasoconstriction or decreased arterial flow, such as peripheral coldness or Raynaud’s syndrome, should be further evaluated. Naratriptan is contraindicated in patients with peripheral vascular disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasoconstriction
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, chills, edema, fever
    General Information
    General effects not listed elsewhere that were reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation included chills, fever, descriptions of odor or taste, edema and swelling, allergies, and allergic reactions (unspecified). Rare effects (< 0.1%) included spasms and mobility disorders. Anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions and hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema have been reported in patients taking naratriptan. Such reactions may be life-threatening or fatal and are more likely to occur in patients with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, depression, hallucinations, hostility
    General Information
    Psychiatric effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation included anxiety, depression (depressive disorders), and detachment. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included aggression, hostility, agitation, hallucinations, panic, and hyperactivity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hostility
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    breast discharge, libido decrease
    General Information
    Adverse reproductive effects reported in less than 0.1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation included lumps of the female reproductive tract, breast inflammation, vaginal inflammation, fallopian tube inflammation, breast discharge, endometrium disorders, libido decrease, and breast lumps.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      breast discharge
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, alopecia, erythema, folliculitis, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria, xerosis
    General Information
    Adverse dermatologic effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation included hyperhidrosis, skin rash (unspecified), pruritus, and urticaria. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included erythema, dermatitis, dermatosis, hair loss and alopecia, pruritic skin rash, acne vulgaris, folliculitis, allergic skin reactions, macular rash, skin photosensitivity, photodermatitis, skin flakiness, and xerosis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      folliculitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cystitis, diuresis, polyuria, urinary incontinence, urinary urgency
    General Information
    Urologic effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving naratriptan during clinical evaluation included bladder inflammation (cystitis), polyuria, and diuresis. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included urinary tract hemorrhage, urinary urgency, pyelitis, and urinary incontinence.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diuresis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urinary urgency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    intracranial bleeding, stroke
    General Information
    Treatment with 5-HT1 agonists has been associated with cerebral vasospasm resulting in intracranial bleeding, subarachnoid hemorrhage, stroke, seizures, and other cerebrovascular events, some of which have lead to fatalities. In a several cases, it appears that the cerebrovascular incident was the primary event and the 5-HT1 agonists was given with the incorrect assumption that these symptoms were due to a migraine when they were not. Cerebral vascular accident, transient ischemic attack, and subarachnoid hemorrhage have been reported during post-market use of naratriptan.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    medication overuse headache, withdrawal
    General Information
    Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including triptans, may lead to medication overuse headache. Patients may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise patients about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of naratriptan or any combination of therapy for at least 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      medication overuse headache
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Naratriptan is an antimigraine agent similar to sumatriptan but with a longer half life and a corresponding longer duration of action. In clinical trials, naratriptan had a slower onset and was slightly less effective than sumatriptan, but naratriptan was better tolerated. In addition, migraine recurrence was lower with naratriptan. Naratriptan is approved for the acute treatment of migraine attacks with or without aura in adults, and may be used off-label for menstrual migraine prophylaxis. Naratriptan oral tablets were approved for marketing on February 10, 1998.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mechanism of Action: Naratriptan is a potent agonist at serotonin 5-HT1 type B and type D receptors. The pathophysiology of migraine is not completely understood, and therefore the action of the serotonin-agonists (i.e., 'triptans' ) in treating migraine is not completely certain. Multiple pharmacological actions have been derived that appear important for antimigraine effects.. 'Triptans' stimulate presynaptic 5-HT1D receptors, an action that inhibits both dural vasodilation and inflammation. They directly inhibit trigeminal nuclei cell nociceptive neurotransmission via 5-HT1B/D receptor agonism within the trigeminocervical complex of the brainstem and upper spinal cord. Additionally, vascular 5-HT1B receptor agonism results in vasoconstriction of painfully dilated intracranial extracerebral vessels.. Naratriptan has no significant affinity for other serotonin receptors or for adrenergic, dopaminergic, muscarinic, or benzodiazepine receptors.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Naratriptan is well absorbed after oral administration, with about 70% oral bioavailability. Peak plasma concentrations occur in 2 to 3 hours (Tmax). During a migraine, however, absorption is slower with a Tmax of 3 to 4 hours. Naratriptan displays linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range. Food does not affect naratriptan pharmacokinetics.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Clearance of naratriptan was decreased by 30% in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or B). This resulted in an approximately 40% increase in the half-life (range: 8 to 16 hours). The effects of severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan have not been assessed.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Clearance of naratriptan was reduced by 50% in subjects with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 18 to 39 mL/minute) compared with those with normal renal function. Decrease in clearances resulted in an increase in the mean half-life to 11 hours (range: 7 to 20 hours). The mean Cmax increased by approximately 40%. The effects of severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 15 mL/minute or less) on the pharmacokinetics of naratriptan have not been assessed.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    A decrease in naratriptan clearance (approximately 26%) was observed in healthy geriatric adults (65 to 77 years) compared to younger subjects, resulting in slightly higher exposure.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The Cmax (not corrected for mg/kg/dose) for naratriptan is about 50% higher in females than males.
  Text
  Naratriptan is administered orally. Naratriptan has a steady-state Vd of 170 L. It is 28% to 31% bound to plasma proteins over the concentration range of 50 to 1,000 nanograms/mL. Naratriptan is metabolized by various cytochrome P450 isozymes into several inactive metabolites. It is mostly renally eliminated, with 50% being excreted unchanged and 30% as metabolites in the urine. Renal clearance (220 mL/minute) exceeds glomerular filtration, indicating active tubular secretion. The mean half-life of naratriptan is 6 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters:
In vitro, naratriptan is metabolized by a wide range of cytochrome P450 isoenzymes.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Naratriptan is administered orally without regard to meals.
The tablets should be given with fluids.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    5 mg/day PO or per 24 hour period. The safety of treating more than 4 headaches in a 30-day period is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    5 mg/day PO or per 24 hour period. The safety of treating more than 4 headaches in a 30-day period is unknown.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Naratriptan is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh grade C). For those with mild to moderate hepatic impairment a starting dose of 1 mg PO is recommended; the maximum daily dose is 2.5 mg/24 hours PO.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl >= 15 ml/min: The recommended starting dose is 1 mg PO; the maximum daily dose is 2.5 mg/24 hours PO.
CrCl < 15 mL/min: Naratriptan is contraindicated.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis:
See dosage for patients with renal impairment. It is not known whether hemodialysis (or peritoneal dialysis) removes naratriptan from plasma.
