=== Acyclovir/Hydrocortisone — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3691)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: topical; Common adult doses: Apply 5x/day.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): contact dermatitis, erythema, skin irritation, xerosis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Acyclovir; hydrocortisone is for herpes labialis infections.

ACYCLOVIR/HYDROCORTISONE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Xerese

Indication Specific Dosing

For the early treatment of recurrent herpes labialis (cold sores) to reduce the likelihood of ulcerative cold sores and to shorten the lesion healing time

Topical dosage
Adults, Adolescents, and Children >= 6 years


Apply topically to orofacial affected area 5 times per day for 5 days as early as possible after the first signs and symptoms of herpes labialis occur (during the prodrome or when lesions appear).


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

General Information

Acyclovir; hydrocortisone is for herpes labialis infections. Other orofacial lesions, including those caused by a bacterial or fungal infection, may be difficult to distinguish from cold sores. Patients should seek medical advice when a potential cold sore fails to heal within 2 weeks to determine if another infectious process is taking place.

pregnancy


There are no available data on acyclovir; hydrocortisone use during pregnancy. However, published observational studies of the use of topical acyclovir and low and medium potency topical corticosteroids during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk with the use of these products and major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Systemic exposure of acyclovir and hydrocortisone after topical administration is expected to be minimal.


breast-feeding


Acyclovir; hydrocortisone is considered compatible with breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of acyclovir; hydrocortisone in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. However, systemic exposure of acyclovir and hydrocortisone after topical administration is expected to be minimal.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no available data on acyclovir; hydrocortisone use during pregnancy. However, published observational studies of the use of topical acyclovir and low and medium potency topical corticosteroids during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk with the use of these products and major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Systemic exposure of acyclovir and hydrocortisone after topical administration is expected to be minimal.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Acyclovir; Hydrocortisone products.

Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of the acyclovir; hydrocortisone topical combination product. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs of Acyclovir or Hydrocortisone for more information about each specific agent.
 
After administration of acyclovir; hydrocortisone, the patient may experience a bitter taste.

contact dermatitis, erythema, skin irritation, xerosis


The most common adverse events associated with acyclovir; hydrocortisone were localized skin reactions. Skin irritation and contact sensitization are possible. Local adverse reactions that occurred in < 1% of patients in clinical trials included drying or flaking of the skin (xerosis), burning or tingling after applications, erythema, pigmentation changes, and application site reactions (inflammation). Contact dermatitis has been observed when acyclovir; hydrocortisone has been applied under an occlusive dressing in safety studies. Contact sensitivity tests showed that the hydrocortisone or a component of the cream base were the reactive substances. No phototoxicity potential was identified in trials.


Description

NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of the acyclovir; hydrocortisone topical combination product. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs of Acyclovir or Hydrocortisone for more information about each specific agent.
 
Acyclovir; hydrocortisone is a topical agent for the treatment of herpes labialis (cold sores). Acyclovir is an antiviral agent and is a synthetic nucleoside analogue that has inhibitory activity against herpes viruses (herpes simplex virus type 1, HSV-1, and herpes simplex virus type 2, HSV-2). The inhibitory activity is highly selective due to acyclovir's affinity for the thymidine kinase enzyme encoded by HSV. Hydrocortisone is a steroid hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex. Topically, hydrocortisone is used for its anti-inflammatory effects. Topical acyclovir; hydrocortisone was approved by the FDA in July 2009 for the treatment of recurrent herpes labialis.

Mechanism Of Action

Acyclovir is an antiviral agent; hydrocortisone is a corticosteroid.
Acyclovir: Acyclovir has inhibitory activity against herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) and herpes simplex virus 2 (HSV-2) in vitro and in vivo. Acyclovir selectively binds the thymidine kinase (TK) enzyme to inhibit viral DNA synthesis. The viral TK enzyme converts acyclovir into acyclovir monophosphate (a nucleotide analogue), which is further converted into acyclovir diphosphate and then acyclovir triphosphate. Acyclovir triphosphate competitively inhibits and inactivates viral DNA polymerase. It is also incorporated into and terminates the viral DNA chain. Viral resistance can result from qualitative and quantitative changes in the viral TK enzyme and/or viral DNA polymerase. HSV isolates with reduced acyclovir susceptibility have been recovered from immunocompromised patients. Viral resistance should be considered in patients who fail to respond or experience recurrent viral shedding during therapy. Cross-resistance has been observed among HSV isolates carrying mutations and resistance-associated substitutions, which confer reduced susceptibility to penciclovir, famciclovir, and foscarnet.
Hydrocortisone: Hydrocortisone is the main glucocorticoid secreted by the adrenal cortex. When used topically, hydrocortisone exhibits anti-inflammatory properties that help suppress the clinical manifestations associated with the herpes infection outbreak.


Pharmacokinetics

Acyclovir; hydrocortisone is administered topically.
Acyclovir: Minimal absorption of acyclovir is expected after topical application of acyclovir; hydrocortisone. If acyclovir does reach systemic circulation, it would be expected to undergo metabolism and excretion similar to systemically administered acyclovir. After systemic administration, infected viral cells transform acyclovir to its active triphosphate, and a small proportion may be metabolized extracellularly. Renal elimination via glomerular filtration and tubular secretion of unchanged drug is the major route of elimination accounting for 62—91% of the dose. The elimination half-life of acyclovir is 2.5—3.3 hours.
Hydrocortisone: If hydrocortisone is absorbed through the skin, it binds to plasma proteins. Hydrocortisone is metabolized primarily in the liver and then excreted by the kidneys.


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Topical Route


Acyclovir: Acyclovir; hydrocortisone plasma concentrations have not been measured after topical administration on cold sores; however, when applied as a single ingredient topically, systemic absorption is minimal with no drug detected in the blood or urine.
Hydrocortisone: Acyclovir; hydrocortisone plasma concentrations have not been measured after topical administration on cold sores. However, many factors determine the extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids, including the vehicle used, the integrity of the epidermal barrier, and the use of occlusive dressings. Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal, intact skin and can have systemic side effects depending on the potency of the steroid and the size of the surface area to which the steroid is applied. Inflammation and other diseases of the skin that disrupt the skin barrier can increase percutaneous absorption.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Topical Administration
Cream/Ointment/Lotion Formulations


Avoid ophthalmic administration, administration inside the mouth or nose, or administration to the genitals.
Apply acyclovir; hydrocortisone cream topically to cold sore lesions.
Apply a quantity sufficient to cover the affected area, including the outer margin.
Avoid unnecessary rubbing of the affected area to avoid aggravating or transferring the infection.
Do not apply the topical cream to the eye, inside the mouth or nose, or on the genitals.
Use a finger cot or rubber glove when applying to avoid transmission of the virus to other sites or persons.
Wash hands thoroughly after administration.
Do not cover cold sore with an occlusive dressing or bandage.
Do not use other skin products (make-up, sunscreen, lip balm) or other skin medications on the cold sore or around the cold sore.
Do not bathe, shower, or swim within 30 minutes of applying acyclovir; hydrocortisone.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Apply 5x/day.

Geriatric

Apply 5x/day.

Adolescents

Apply 5x/day.

Children

>= 6 years: Apply 5x/day.
< 6 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Xerese Topical Cream

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier