=== Acoltremon — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5606)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acoltremon is a first-in-class ophthalmic agent that is a transient receptor potential melastatin 8 channel (TRPM8) thermoreceptor agonist indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease in adults.

Routes: ophthalmic; Common adult doses: 2 drops/day in each eye.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Systemic exposure to acoltremon from maternal ocular administration is low/negligible; therefore, significant fetal exposure is not expected. Intravenous administration of acoltremon to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis did not produce embryofetal toxicity at 806- and 2151-fold the...

ACOLTREMON

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

TRYPTYR

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease

Ophthalmic dosage
Adults


Instill 1 drop into each eye twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart).


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

pregnancy


There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on acoltremon during pregnancy. Systemic exposure to acoltremon from maternal ocular administration is low/negligible; therefore, significant fetal exposure is not expected. Intravenous administration of acoltremon to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis did not produce embryofetal toxicity at 806- and 2151-fold the maximum recommended human ocular dose (MRHOD) of acoltremon on a mg/m2 basis.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

breast-feeding


Alcotremon is considered compatible for use during breast-feeding. While there are no data on the presence in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production, systemic exposure to acoltremon following maternal topical ocular administration is low/negligible and is not expected to result in any significant exposure to a breastfed infant through the milk. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the maternal clinical need for acoltremon.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on acoltremon during pregnancy. Systemic exposure to acoltremon from maternal ocular administration is low/negligible; therefore, significant fetal exposure is not expected. Intravenous administration of acoltremon to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis did not produce embryofetal toxicity at 806- and 2151-fold the maximum recommended human ocular dose (MRHOD) of acoltremon on a mg/m2 basis.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Acoltremon products.

Adverse Reaction
ocular irritation, ocular pain


The most common ocular adverse reaction observed in controlled studies with acoltremon was instillation site ocular pain (50%). Less than 1% of patients discontinued therapy due to burning or stinging sensation in the eyes (ocular irritation).


Description

Acoltremon is a first-in-class ophthalmic agent that is a transient receptor potential melastatin 8 channel (TRPM8) thermoreceptor agonist indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease in adults. It activates trigeminal nerve signaling leading to an increase in natural basal tear production. The efficacy of acoltremon for the treatment of dry eye disease was supported by 2 randomized, multi-center, double-masked, vehicle-controlled studies enrolling a total of 931 people with dry eye (462 of which received acoltremon). The FDA approved acoltremon ophthalmic solution in May 2025.

Mechanism Of Action

The active substance in acoltremon is an agonist of transient receptor potential melastatin 8 (TRPM8) thermoreceptors. TRPM8 thermoreceptor stimulation has been shown to activate trigeminal nerve signaling, leading to increased basal tear production. The exact mechanism of action for acoltremon in dry eye disease is unknown.

Pharmacokinetics

Acoltremon is administered topically to the eyes. Pharmacokinetic data are limited. In the subjects studied, systemic concentrations were negligible.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Other Route(s)

Ophthalmic Route
Alcotremon pharmacokinetics was assessed in 25 patients with dry eye disease receiving acoltremon (1 drop twice daily) on Days 1, 14, and 90. A total of 3 subjects (12%) had a plasma concentration above 20 pg/mL (the lower limit of quantification), with the highest plasma concentration of 213 pg/mL.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Ophthalmic Administration


For ophthalmic use only.
Wash hands before use.
May be used with other eye drops, but wait at least 5 minutes between using acoltremon and using other eye drops.
Contact lenses should be removed prior to administration and may be reinserted 15 minutes following administration.
To avoid the potential for eye injury and contamination, do not touch the vial tip to the eye or other surfaces. Each vial is for 1 patient only. Do not share vials among patients.
Detailed Instructions For Use of Ophthalmic Solution
Remove the unopened carton from the refrigerator.
Check the expiration date printed on the carton.
Write the date the carton is first opened in the space provided on the carton.
Wash hands before each use to prevent infection.
Prepare the eye drops
Take a foil pouch out of the acoltremon carton.
Write the date the foil pouch is first opened in the space provided on the pouch.
Tear open the foil pouch.
Remove the strip of 5 single-dose vials from the foil pouch.
Pull off one single-dose vial from the strip. Always check the expiration date on the vial before use.
Place remaining vials back in the carton in the open foil pouch.
Ophthalmic Administration
Open the acoltremon single-dose vial by twisting off the tab at the top while holding the vial upright. Do not touch the tip of the single-dose vial or allow the tip to touch any surface.
Use immediately after opening.
Have the patient tilt their head backwards or have the patient lie down.
Gently pull the lower eyelid downwards and have patient look up.
Place the tip of the acoltremon single-dose vial close to the eye. To avoid injury or infection, do not allow the tip of the vial to touch the eye.
Gently squeeze the single-dose vial and let 1 full drop of acoltremon coat the eye. The patient should gently close the eye for a few seconds.
Repeat these steps for the other eye.
There is enough acoltremon in a single-dose vial for both eyes.
After administration, throw away the opened single-dose vial and any remaining solution in it. Do not reuse the vial.
Wait at least 5 minutes between using acoltremon and other eye drops.
Wait at least 15 minutes before placing contact lenses back in the eyes.
Storage
After opening the carton, the product may be kept refrigerated or at room temperature, at 36 to 77 degrees F (2 to 25 degrees C) and protected from temperatures above 25 degrees C. If stored at room temperature, use any vials within 30 days and throw away any unused product after this time. Once the interior foil pouch is open, throw away (dispose of) unused single-dose vials 7 days after opening of the foil pouch.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

2 drops/day in each eye.

Geriatric

2 drops/day in each eye

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

TRYPTYR 0.003% Ophthalmic Solution

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier