=== Calcium Acetate (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5078)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Calcium acetate is a calcium salt used as a phosphate binder for the reduction of serum phosphorus in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Specific maximum dosage information is not available; generally, the maximum daily dose of elemental calcium should not exceed 2,000 mg, which is approximately 12 tablets/capsules or 60 mL/day PO; however, higher doses have been reported.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): coma, confusion, delirium, drowsiness, hypercalcemia, hypertension, polyuria, premature ventricular contractions (pvcs), asthenia, dizziness, edema, weakness

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Calcium acetate should be used with caution in patients with preexisting hypercalciuria or nephrolithiasis, especially if renal calculi are present. hypercalcemia Calcium acetate is...

Brand Names
  - Calphron
  - Eliphos
  - PhosLo
  - Phoslyra

Dosage Forms
  - Calcium Acetate 667mg Oral capsule
  - Calcium Acetate 667mg Oral tablet
  - Calcium Acetate Bulk powder
  - PhosLo Gelcaps 667mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Each tablet or capsule or 5 mL of oral solution contains 667 mg calcium acetate which is equivalent to 169 mg (8.45 mEq) calcium ion.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (tablets or capsules)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1334 mg (2 tablets or capsules) PO with each meal initially. The dosage may be gradually increased every 2 to 3 weeks to lower serum phosphate concentrations within the desired range as long as hypercalcemia does not develop. Most patients require 3 to 4 tablets or capsules with each meal. Generally, the maximum daily dose of elemental calcium should not exceed 2,000 mg, which is approximately 12 tablets/capsules daily; however, higher doses have been reported. Do not give other calcium supplements with calcium acetate to avoid hypercalcemia.
        Heading
        Infants†, Children†, and Adolescents†
        Dosage Description
        667 to 1334 mg (1 to 2 tablets or capsules) PO three times daily with each meal. Titrate dose according to serum phosphorus concentrations. One dose titration that was used after 4 and 8 weeks after medication initiation in a clinical study is as follows: phosphorus more than 5.5 mg/dL, increase dose by 1 capsule/tablet 3 times daily; phosphorus 3.5 to 5.5 mg/dL, maintain current dose; phosphorus less than 3.5 mg/dL, decrease dose by 1 tablet/capsule 3 times daily. Usual dose based on adult patients is 3 to 4 tablets or capsules with each meal. Generally, the maximum daily dose of elemental calcium should not exceed 2,000 mg, which is approximately 12 tablets/capsules daily; however, higher doses have been reported. Do not give other calcium supplements with calcium acetate to avoid hypercalcemia. Calcium acetate has been studied in children and adolescents, ranging from 0.9 to 18 years, with chronic and end stage kidney disease. In 1 study, mean doses of approximately 54.5 mg/kg/day were reported at 3 months. Another study reported mean doses of 110 mg/kg/day (4.28 +/- 1.97 g/day) following treatment phases (approximately 18 weeks).
      Heading
      Oral dosage (oral solution)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 mL PO with each meal initially for dialysis patients. If hypercalcemia does not develop, increase the dose gradually every 2 to 3 weeks to lower serum phosphorus concentration to the target range. Most patients require 15 to 20 mL with each meal. Generally, the maximum daily dose of elemental calcium should not exceed 2,000 mg, which is approximately 60 mL daily; however, higher doses have been reported. Do not give other calcium supplements with calcium acetate to avoid hypercalcemia.
        Heading
        Infants†, Children†, and Adolescents†
        Dosage Description
        667 to 1334 mg (5 to 10 mL) PO three times daily with each meal. Titrate dose according to serum phosphorus concentrations. One dose titration that was used after 4 and 8 weeks after medication initiation in a clinical study is as follows: phosphorus more than 5.5 mg/dL, increase dose by 667 mg (5 mL) 3 times daily; phosphorus 3.5 to 5.5 mg/dL, maintain current dose; phosphorus less than 3.5 mg/dL, decrease dose by 667 mg (5 mL) 3 times daily. Usual dose based on adult patients is 15 to 20 mL with each meal. Generally, the maximum daily dose of elemental calcium should not exceed 2,000 mg, which is approximately 60 mL daily; however, higher doses have been reported. Do not give other calcium supplements with calcium acetate to avoid hypercalcemia. Calcium acetate has been studied in children and adolescents, ranging from 0.9 to 18 years, with chronic and end stage kidney disease. In 1 study, mean doses of approximately 54.5 mg/kg/day were reported at 3 months. Another study reported mean doses of 110 mg/kg/day (4.28 +/- 1.97 g/day) following treatment phases (approximately 18 weeks).
    Heading
    For the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with chronic renal failure or end stage renal disease

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    hypercalciuria, nephrolithiasis
    General Information
    Calcium acetate should be used with caution in patients with preexisting hypercalciuria or nephrolithiasis, especially if renal calculi are present.
    Headline
    hypercalcemia
    General Information
    Calcium acetate is contraindicated in patients with hypercalcemia. If hypercalcemia develops during calcium acetate therapy, decrease the calcium acetate dose or discontinue therapy, depending on severity of hypercalcemia. Severe cases may require acute hemodialysis. Maintain the serum calcium-phosphorus (Ca x P) product below 55 mg2 /dL2.
    Headline
    sarcoidosis
    General Information
    Calcium acetate should be used with caution in patients with sarcoidosis as hypercalcemia is more likely to occur in these patients.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Adequate, well-controlled studies on calcium acetate use in human pregnancy are lacking, and no animal reproduction studies have been conducted. In patients with end-stage renal disease, calcium acetate treatment may lead to hypercalcemia, which poses risks to both maternal and fetal health. Maintaining normal serum calcium levels is crucial, as hypercalcemia during pregnancy can increase the risk of stillbirth, preterm delivery, neonatal hypercalcemia, and hypoparathyroidism. When maternal calcium concentrations are properly monitored and maintained, calcium acetate treatment is not expected to cause fetal harm.
    Headline
    hyperparathyroidism, hypervitaminosis D
    General Information
    Calcium acetate should be used cautiously, if at all, in patients with hypervitaminosis D (vitamin D toxicity) or hyperparathyroidism. Hypercalcemia is likely to occur in either of these conditions.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Calcium acetate is compatible with breast-feeding. It is excreted in human milk; however, it is not expected to cause harm to the breastfed child, provided maternal serum calcium concentrations are appropriately monitored and maintained within the normal range.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Adequate, well-controlled studies on calcium acetate use in human pregnancy are lacking, and no animal reproduction studies have been conducted. In patients with end-stage renal disease, calcium acetate treatment may lead to hypercalcemia, which poses risks to both maternal and fetal health. Maintaining normal serum calcium levels is crucial, as hypercalcemia during pregnancy can increase the risk of stillbirth, preterm delivery, neonatal hypercalcemia, and hypoparathyroidism. When maternal calcium concentrations are properly monitored and maintained, calcium acetate treatment is not expected to cause fetal harm.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Calcium acetate is compatible with breast-feeding. It is excreted in human milk; however, it is not expected to cause harm to the breastfed child, provided maternal serum calcium concentrations are appropriately monitored and maintained within the normal range.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Alendronate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
amLODIPine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium. (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Atenolol: (Minor) Calcium antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate) and supplements (e.g., other oral calcium salts) have been reported to reduce the mean peak concentrations by 51% and the AUC of atenolol by 32%. In another study, antacids reduced the AUC of atenolol by 33%. Separate doses of atenolol and calcium-containing antacids or supplements by at least 2 hours to minimize this potential interaction,. However, most clinicians consider the interaction of atenolol with antacids to be of minor clinical significance, since clinical efficacy (heart rate and blood pressure parameters) appear to be unchanged under usual intermittent clinical use.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium. (Minor) Calcium antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate) and supplements (e.g., other oral calcium salts) have been reported to reduce the mean peak concentrations by 51% and the AUC of atenolol by 32%. In another study, antacids reduced the AUC of atenolol by 33%. Separate doses of atenolol and calcium-containing antacids or supplements by at least 2 hours to minimize this potential interaction,. However, most clinicians consider the interaction of atenolol with antacids to be of minor clinical significance, since clinical efficacy (heart rate and blood pressure parameters) appear to be unchanged under usual intermittent clinical use.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Baloxavir Marboxil: (Major) Do not administer baloxavir with products that contain calcium. Polyvalent cations, such as calcium, can chelate with baloxavir, reducing its absorption.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Administer bictegravir with food at the same time as oral calcium supplements. If bictegravir is taken on an empty stomach, it should be given at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after calcium supplements. Routine administration of bictegravir under fasting conditions simultaneously with, or 2 hours after, calcium supplements is not recommended. Calcium is a polyvalent cation that can bind bictegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously without food results in reduced bioavailability of bictegravir. In drug interaction studies, simultaneous administration of bictegravir with another calcium supplement under fasted conditions decreased the mean AUC of bictegravir by approximately 33%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Administer bictegravir with food at the same time as oral calcium supplements. If bictegravir is taken on an empty stomach, it should be given at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after calcium supplements. Routine administration of bictegravir under fasting conditions simultaneously with, or 2 hours after, calcium supplements is not recommended. Calcium is a polyvalent cation that can bind bictegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously without food results in reduced bioavailability of bictegravir. In drug interaction studies, simultaneous administration of bictegravir with another calcium supplement under fasted conditions decreased the mean AUC of bictegravir by approximately 33%.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Cabotegravir: (Moderate) Administer oral calcium at least two hours before or four hours after taking oral cabotegravir. Calcium is a polyvalent cation that can bind cabotegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced oral bioavailability of cabotegravir.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Administer oral calcium at least two hours before or four hours after taking oral cabotegravir. Calcium is a polyvalent cation that can bind cabotegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced oral bioavailability of cabotegravir.
Calcifediol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of high doses of calcium and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Calcipotriene: (Minor) There is evidence that calcipotriene can be absorbed in amounts that are sufficient to produce systemic effects, including elevated serum calcium; hypercalcemia has been observed in normal prescription use. Use calcipotriene cautiously with other agents that can produce hypercalcemia (e.g., calcium salts or supplements including calcium carbonate).
Calcipotriene; Betamethasone: (Minor) There is evidence that calcipotriene can be absorbed in amounts that are sufficient to produce systemic effects, including elevated serum calcium; hypercalcemia has been observed in normal prescription use. Use calcipotriene cautiously with other agents that can produce hypercalcemia (e.g., calcium salts or supplements including calcium carbonate).
Calcitonin: (Moderate) Calcitonin is given to hypercalcemic patients to reduce serum calcium concentrations. For the treatment of hypercalcemia, calcium supplements should be avoided. Calcium salts, including calcium carbonate, can elevate serum calcium concentrations and antagonize the effects of the calcitonin for this condition. For the treatment of osteoporosis adequate intake of calcium salts are necessary in conjunction with calcitonin. An increase in serum calcium concentrations helps to reduce bone resorption and loss of bone mass, and offsets the effect of calcitonin in lowering serum calcium levels.
Calcitriol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of high doses of calcium and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Calcium Phosphate, Supersaturated: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Cardiac glycosides: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of digoxin toxicity during concomitant calcium use. Hypercalcemia may predispose persons to digoxin toxicity. If IV calcium is administered rapidly in a person receiving digoxin, serious arrhythmias may occur. Monitor ECG and calcium concentrations closely during IV calcium and digoxin administration.
cefTRIAXone: (Major) Ceftriaxone is contraindicated in neonates who are receiving or are expected to receive IV calcium-containing solutions, including calcium-containing parenteral nutrition. Cases of fatal pulmonary and renal precipitate embolism in neonates have been described. There have been no reports of an interaction between ceftriaxone and oral calcium-containing products or between intramuscular ceftriaxone and calcium-containing products. Precipitation of ceftriaxone and calcium can occur when mixed. In patients other than neonates, the risk for precipitate embolism may be adequately addressed by separating administrations or administering each medication sequentially if IV infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Administer oral ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after oral products that contain calcium. Ciprofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain calcium.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Clevidipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Cod Liver Oil: (Minor) Doses in excess of 1,500 to 2,000 mcg per day of Vitamin A may lead to bone loss and will counteract the effects of supplementation with calcium salts.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Delafloxacin: (Major) Administer oral delafloxacin at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after oral products that contain calcium. Delafloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with fluoroquinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain calcium.
Demeclocycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of digoxin toxicity during concomitant calcium use. Hypercalcemia may predispose persons to digoxin toxicity. If IV calcium is administered rapidly in a person receiving digoxin, serious arrhythmias may occur. Monitor ECG and calcium concentrations closely during IV calcium and digoxin administration.
dilTIAZem: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of high doses of calcium and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Doxycycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Edetate Calcium Disodium, Calcium EDTA: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Eltrombopag: (Major) Eltrombopag chelates polyvalent cations (e.g., calcium, aluminum, and magnesium) in food, mineral supplements, and antacids. In a clinical study, systemic exposure to eltrombopag was decreased by 70% when it was administered with a polyvalent cation-containing antacid. Administer eltrombopag at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after any oral products containing polyvalent cations, such as aluminum salts, (like aluminum hydroxide), calcium salts, (including calcium carbonate), and magnesium salts.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Separate administration of elvitegravir and calcium by at least 2 hours. Due to the formation of ionic complexes in the gastrointestinal tract, simultaneous administration results in lower elvitegravir plasma concentrations.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Separate administration of elvitegravir and calcium by at least 2 hours. Due to the formation of ionic complexes in the gastrointestinal tract, simultaneous administration results in lower elvitegravir plasma concentrations.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium acetate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Calcium acetate decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by calcium acetate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estramustine: (Major) Administration of estramustine with calcium impairs the oral absorption of estramustine significantly, due to formation of a calcium-phosphate complex. Calcium-containing drugs must not be taken simultaneously with estramustine. Patients should be instructed to take estramustine with water at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after calcium supplements.
Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Felodipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Ibandronate: (Moderate) Separate administration of oral ibandronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 1 hour. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of oral ibandronate.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) The oral absorption of phosphorus is reduced by ingestion of pharmacologic doses of calcium carbonate or other phosphate-lowering calcium salts (e.g., calcium acetate). There is, however, no significant interference with phosphorus absorption by oral dietary calcium at intakes within the typical adult range. If the patient requires multiple calcium supplements or a calcium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphorus salts from calcium-containing products. In some instances the administration of calcium salts or calcium carbonate is used therapeutically (e.g., uremia) to decrease serum phosphorus levels, so the administration of phosphorus supplements would dynamically counteract the intended use of calcium in these settings, assuming hypophosphatemia is not present. Appropriate calcium-phosphorus ratios in vivo are important for proper calcium homeostasis in tissues and bone; if the serum ionized calcium concentration is elevated, the concomitant use of calcium salts and phosphorus salts may increase the risk of calcium deposition in soft tissue.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Levamlodipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Administer oral products that contain calcium at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after orally administered levofloxacin. Levofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Chelation of divalent cations with levofloxacin is less than with other quinolones. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain calcium.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations closely if concomitant use of calcium and lithium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hypercalcemia.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Minocycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Administer oral moxifloxacin at least 4 hours before or 8 hours after oral products that contain calcium. Moxifloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain calcium.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
NiCARdipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
NIFEdipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
niMODipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Nisoldipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Administer oral products that contain calcium at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after ofloxacin. Ofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain calcium.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium. (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Omadacycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Parathyroid Hormone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations closely if concomitant use of calcium and parathyroid hormone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hypercalcemia.
Paricalcitol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of high doses of calcium and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Oral absorption of phenytoin can be reduced by calcium salts. Calcium salts can form complexes that are nonabsorbable. Separating the administration of phenytoin and calcium salts by at least 2 hours will help avoid this interaction. A similar interaction may occur with ethotoin.
Phosphorated Carbohydrate Solution: (Moderate) The oral absorption of phosphorus is reduced by ingestion of pharmacologic doses of calcium carbonate or other phosphate-lowering calcium salts (e.g., calcium acetate). There is, however, no significant interference with phosphorus absorption by oral dietary calcium at intakes within the typical adult range. If the patient requires multiple calcium supplements or a calcium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphorus salts from calcium-containing products. In some instances the administration of calcium salts or calcium carbonate is used therapeutically (e.g., uremia) to decrease serum phosphorus levels, so the administration of phosphorus supplements would dynamically counteract the intended use of calcium in these settings, assuming hypophosphatemia is not present. Appropriate calcium-phosphorus ratios in vivo are important for proper calcium homeostasis in tissues and bone; if the serum ionized calcium concentration is elevated, the concomitant use of calcium salts and phosphorus salts may increase the risk of calcium deposition in soft tissue.
Phosphorus: (Moderate) The oral absorption of phosphorus is reduced by ingestion of pharmacologic doses of calcium carbonate or other phosphate-lowering calcium salts (e.g., calcium acetate). There is, however, no significant interference with phosphorus absorption by oral dietary calcium at intakes within the typical adult range. If the patient requires multiple calcium supplements or a calcium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphorus salts from calcium-containing products. In some instances the administration of calcium salts or calcium carbonate is used therapeutically (e.g., uremia) to decrease serum phosphorus levels, so the administration of phosphorus supplements would dynamically counteract the intended use of calcium in these settings, assuming hypophosphatemia is not present. Appropriate calcium-phosphorus ratios in vivo are important for proper calcium homeostasis in tissues and bone; if the serum ionized calcium concentration is elevated, the concomitant use of calcium salts and phosphorus salts may increase the risk of calcium deposition in soft tissue.
Potassium Phosphate: (Moderate) The oral absorption of phosphorus is reduced by ingestion of pharmacologic doses of calcium carbonate or other phosphate-lowering calcium salts (e.g., calcium acetate). There is, however, no significant interference with phosphorus absorption by oral dietary calcium at intakes within the typical adult range. If the patient requires multiple calcium supplements or a calcium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphorus salts from calcium-containing products. In some instances the administration of calcium salts or calcium carbonate is used therapeutically (e.g., uremia) to decrease serum phosphorus levels, so the administration of phosphorus supplements would dynamically counteract the intended use of calcium in these settings, assuming hypophosphatemia is not present. Appropriate calcium-phosphorus ratios in vivo are important for proper calcium homeostasis in tissues and bone; if the serum ionized calcium concentration is elevated, the concomitant use of calcium salts and phosphorus salts may increase the risk of calcium deposition in soft tissue.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) The oral absorption of phosphorus is reduced by ingestion of pharmacologic doses of calcium carbonate or other phosphate-lowering calcium salts (e.g., calcium acetate). There is, however, no significant interference with phosphorus absorption by oral dietary calcium at intakes within the typical adult range. If the patient requires multiple calcium supplements or a calcium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphorus salts from calcium-containing products. In some instances the administration of calcium salts or calcium carbonate is used therapeutically (e.g., uremia) to decrease serum phosphorus levels, so the administration of phosphorus supplements would dynamically counteract the intended use of calcium in these settings, assuming hypophosphatemia is not present. Appropriate calcium-phosphorus ratios in vivo are important for proper calcium homeostasis in tissues and bone; if the serum ionized calcium concentration is elevated, the concomitant use of calcium salts and phosphorus salts may increase the risk of calcium deposition in soft tissue.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Risedronate: (Moderate) Separate administration of oral risedronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 2 hours. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of oral risedronate.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Sarecycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Sodium Fluoride: (Moderate) Absorption of sodium fluoride may be reduced by concomitant use of antacids that contain magnesium, aluminum, or calcium. An interval of at least 2 hours is advisable between administration of sodium fluoride and antacids.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Sucralfate: (Moderate) Oral antacids, including calcium salts, potentially interfere with gastric mucosal binding of sucralfate. This interaction can be minimized by staggering the doses of these agents as much as possible.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Tecovirimat: (Moderate) Monitor patients for tecovirimat-related adverse events when tecovirimat is administered with phosphate binders, such as calcium acetate. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tecovirimat overall exposure by 1.16-fold.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Teriparatide: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations closely if concomitant use of calcium and teriparatide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hypercalcemia.
Tetracycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Tetracyclines: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Trientine: (Major) In general, oral mineral supplements should not be given since they may block the oral absorption of trientine. However, iron deficiency may develop, especially in children and menstruating or pregnant women, or as a result of the low copper diet recommended for Wilson's disease. If necessary, iron may be given in short courses, but since iron and trientine each inhibit oral absorption of the other, 2 hours should elapse between administration of trientine and iron doses.
Vadadustat: (Moderate) Administer vadadustat at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after non-iron-containing phosphate binders, such as calcium acetate. Taking these medications together at the same time interferes with vadadustat oral absorption and has been observed to decrease overall exposure by nearly 50%, which may reduce its efficacy. Administration of vadadustat at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after minimizes the risk of this interaction.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Verapamil: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Vitamin A: (Minor) Doses in excess of 1,500 to 2,000 mcg per day of Vitamin A may lead to bone loss and will counteract the effects of supplementation with calcium salts.
Vitamin D analogs: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of high doses of calcium and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anorexia, coma, confusion, constipation, delirium, drowsiness, hypercalcemia, hypertension, nausea, polyuria, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), vomiting
    General Information
    Hypercalcemia was reported in approximately 7% to 16% of patients receiving calcium acetate in clinical studies. Nausea (3% to 6%) and vomiting (2% to 4%) were also reported and may be signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia. Other signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia include anorexia, constipation, drowsiness, hypertension, polyuria, and premature ventricular contractions (PVCs). Severe hypercalcemia (calcium more than 12 mg/dL) may result in confusion, delirium, stupor, and coma. Levels more than 15 mg/dL may be life-threatening. If hypercalcemia develops during calcium acetate therapy, decrease the calcium acetate dose or discontinue therapy, depending on severity of hypercalcemia. Severe hypercalcemia may require acute hemodialysis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      coma
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      premature ventricular contractions (PVCs)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    diarrhea
    General Information
    Diarrhea was commonly reported (13.2%) with calcium acetate oral solution in adult patients in a clinical study and was more common than that observed with the solid calcium acetate formulation. Calcium acetate oral solution contains maltitol which may induce a laxative effect.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    pruritus
    General Information
    Isolated cases of pruritus have been reported with calcium acetate and may represent allergic reactions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    asthenia, dizziness, edema, weakness
    General Information
    Dizziness, edema, and weakness (asthenia) have been reported with calcium acetate in postmarketing surveillance.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    nephrolithiasis
    General Information
    A rare, but serious, side effect of calcium salts is calcific nephrolithiasis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nephrolithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    milk-alkali syndrome
    General Information
    Milk-alkali syndrome, characterized by hypercalcemia and metabolic alkalosis and, if left untreated, renal failure, can occur during prolonged therapy with oral calcium salts that are alkaline, such as calcium acetate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      milk-alkali syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    muscle cramps
    General Information
    Muscle cramps have been reported in patients receiving chronic calcium acetate therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Calcium acetate is a calcium salt used as a phosphate binder for the reduction of serum phosphorus in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). When dietary phosphate restriction is inadequate to control phosphorus levels, administration of phosphate binders is necessary. Guidelines recommend that the serum calcium-phosphate product be maintained at less than 55 mg2/dL2 in patients with CKD. Calcium acetate lowers serum phosphate concentrations similarly to calcium carbonate; however, calcium acetate contains less elemental calcium and hypercalcemia has been noted less frequently with calcium acetate. Similar phosphorus level control has been observed with calcium acetate and sevelamer. Phosphate binding with calcium acetate is also similar to that of aluminum hydroxide. Disadvantages of calcium acetate as a phosphate binder include hypercalcemia, extraskeletal calcification, and gastrointestinal side effects.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Calcium acetate when taken with meals, combines with dietary phosphate to form an insoluble calcium phosphate complex, which is excreted in the feces, resulting in decreased phosphorus concentrations.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Calcium acetate absorption is approximately 40% and 30% under fasting and non-fasting conditions, respectively. Similar changes in serum calcium and phosphorus concentrations have been observed with calcium acetate, whether given as the oral solution, tablets, or gelcaps.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of calcium acetate have not been evaluated in pediatric patients.
  Text
  Calcium acetate is administered orally. Approximately 1.04 mg of phosphate is bound per mg of calcium absorbed when given with meals and 1 mg of phosphate is bound per 2.9 mg of calcium absorbed when given between meals. Approximately 45 mg of phosphate is bound per 1 gram of calcium acetate. Calcium is primarily excreted in the feces and bile (80%). Urinary excretion accounts for the remainder (20%). However, approximately 99% of filtered calcium is reabsorbed by the kidney with less than 1% excreted. Parathyroid hormone, calcitonin, and 1,25 dihydroxycholecalciferol are primarily responsible for controlling calcium equilibrium. Insulin, thyroxine, growth hormone, androgens, estrogens, adrenal corticosteroids, and inorganic phosphate also contribute.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: none

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Swallow tablets and capsules whole; do not chew.
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Always administer using a calibrated oral dosing syringe or the provided dosing cup.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer with each meal.
If a potential drug interaction is to be avoided, administer the other drug at least 1 hour before or 3 hours after the dose of calcium acetate.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Specific maximum dosage information is not available; generally, the maximum daily dose of elemental calcium should not exceed 2,000 mg, which is approximately 12 tablets/capsules or 60 mL/day PO; however, higher doses have been reported.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Specific maximum dosage information is not available; generally, the maximum daily dose of elemental calcium should not exceed 2,000 mg, which is approximately 12 tablets/capsules or 60 mL/day PO; however, higher doses have been reported.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, calcium acetate has been used off-label in pediatric patients. Generally, the maximum daily dose of elemental calcium should not exceed 2,000 mg, which is approximately 12 tablets/capsules or 60 mL/day PO; however, higher doses have been reported.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, calcium acetate has been used off-label in pediatric patients. Generally, the maximum daily dose of elemental calcium should not exceed 2,000 mg, which is approximately 12 tablets/capsules or 60 mL/day PO; however, higher doses have been reported.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, calcium acetate has been used off-label in pediatric patients. Generally, the maximum daily dose of elemental calcium should not exceed 2,000 mg, which is approximately 60 mL/day PO; however, higher doses have been reported.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. Adjust dosage based on patient response and serum phosphorus and calcium concentrations.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. Adjust dosage based on patient response and serum phosphorus and calcium concentrations.
