=== Alprostadil — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 1184)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alprostadil is used to treat erectile dysfunction (ED) in adult males.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: Dependent on indication for therapy and product prescribed.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): apnea, bleeding, drowsiness, fever, hypothermia, irritability, lethargy, respiratory depression, seizures, tachypnea, wheezing, anemia, disseminated intravascular coagulation (dic), thrombocytopenia, gastroesophageal reflux, gi obstruction, hyperbilirubinemia, diaphoresis, hypoesthesia, rash, weakness, anuria, hematuria, increased urinary frequency, urinary retention, urinary urgency, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypertriglyceridemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Always select the proper product for administration of alprostadil to pediatric patients.

ALPROSTADIL

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Caverject, Caverject Impulse, Edex, Muse, Prostin VR

Indication Specific Dosing

For ductus arteriosus maintenance to maintain patency in neonates with patent ductus-dependent congenital heart defects until palliative or corrective surgery can be performed

Intravenous or Intra-Arterial dosage
Infants


0.05 to 0.1 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV or intra-arterial (umbilical) infusion, initially. Titrate dose to target clinical response (i.e., increased partial pressure of oxygen in infants with restricted pulmonary blood flow or increased systemic blood pressure and blood pH in infants with restricted blood flow), then reduce the dose to the lowest possible dose that maintains the response. Dose may be decreased from 0.1 to 0.05 to 0.025 to 0.01 mcg/kg/minute. Usual dose: 0.01 to 0.1 mcg/kg/minute. 0.01 to 0.02 mcg/kg/minute may maintain patency while minimizing the risk of apnea. Max: 0.4 mcg/kg/minute; however, high infusion rates do not usually produce greater effects and have a higher incidence of adverse effects.


Neonates


0.05 to 0.1 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV or intra-arterial (umbilical) infusion, initially. Titrate dose to target clinical response (i.e., increased partial pressure of oxygen in infants with restricted pulmonary blood flow or increased systemic blood pressure and blood pH in infants with restricted blood flow), then reduce the dose to the lowest possible dose that maintains the response. Dose may be decreased from 0.1 to 0.05 to 0.025 to 0.01 mcg/kg/minute. Usual dose: 0.01 to 0.1 mcg/kg/minute. 0.01 to 0.02 mcg/kg/minute may maintain patency while minimizing the risk of apnea. Max: 0.4 mcg/kg/minute; however, high infusion rates do not usually produce greater effects and have a higher incidence of adverse effects.


For the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED)

For erectile dysfunction due to vasculogenic, psychogenic or mixed causes
Intracavernous dosage (Caverject injection only)
Adults


2.5 mcg initially, injected into the corpus cavernosa, adjusting the dosage by 2.5 mcg increments, to 5 mcg, then by 5 mcg increments according to patient response. Maximum 60 mcg/dose. Do not administer more than 3 times per week, with a minimum of 24 hours between doses.


Intracavernous dosage (Edex injection only)
Adults


2.5 mcg initially, injected into the corpus cavernosa. If there is a partial response, may be increase by 2.5 mcg to 5 mcg and then in 5 to 10 mcg increments according to patient response until the dose producing an erection suitable for intercourse and not more than 1 hour in duration achieved. If there is no response to the initial 2.5 mcg dose, the second dose may be increased to 7.5 mcg, followed by increments of 5 to 10 mcg. Patient must remain in physician's office until complete detumescence occurs. If there is no response, the next higher dose may be given within 1 hour. If there is a response, wait at least a 1-day interval before giving the next dose. Do not administer more than 3 times per week, with a minimum of 24 hours between doses.


Intraurethral dosage (urethral suppository; i.e., Muse suppository)
Adults


125 or 250 mcg by intraurethral insertion, initially, as a single dose as needed. Adjust the dose on separate occasions in a stepwise manner until an erection that is sufficient for sexual intercourse is achieved. Dose range: 125 to 1,000 mcg/dose. Max: 2 doses/24 hours.


For erectile dysfunction due to neurogenic origin
Intracavernous dosage (Caverject injection only)
Adults


1.25 mcg initially, injected into the corpus cavernosa, adjusting the dosage by 2.5 mcg increments, to 5 mcg, then by 5 mcg increments according to patient response. Maximum 60 mcg/dose. Do not administer more than 3 times per week, with a minimum of 24 hours between doses.


Intracavernous dosage (Edex injection only)
Adults


1.25 mcg initially, injected into the corpus cavernosa. May increase by 1.25 mcg to a dose of 2.5 mcg, followed by an increment of 2.5 mcg to a dose of 5 mcg, and then in 5-mcg increments until a dose producing an erection suitable for intercourse and not more than 1 hour in duration achieved. Patient must remain in physician's office until complete detumescence occurs. If there is no response, the next higher dose may be given within 1 hour. If there is a response, wait at least a 1-day interval before the next dose is given. Do not administer more than 3 times per week, with a minimum of 24 hours between doses.


For the treatment of ED in combination with other vasoactive agents (i.e., papaverine, phentolamine)†
Intracavernous dosage (Triple-drug regimen)
Adults


Triple drug regimen dose ranges reported in literature: 0.2 to 0.4 mg phentolamine plus 8 to 16 mg papaverine plus 10 to 20 mcg alprostadil per injection. Although alprostadil monotherapy has a high efficacy rate, reaching up to 70%, triple drug therapy with alprostadil, papaverine, and phentolamine has a response rate of up to 92%. Individual dosages are determined by series of trial injections under physician supervision. Limit use to 1 injection in a 24-hour period, given no more than 3 times per week.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

children, infants, neonates, premature neonates


Always select the proper product for administration of alprostadil to pediatric patients. Alprostadil injection formulations intended for intracavernosal injection (e.g., Caverject and Caverject Impulse) contain benzyl alcohol and should not be used in neonates. Intracavernosal injections of alprostadil are not indicated for neonates, infants, or children and should not be substituted for intravenous alprostadil injection in these populations. Benzyl alcohol has been associated with reports of fatal 'gasping syndrome' in neonates. The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is unknown. The risk of benzyl alcohol toxicity depends on the quantity administered and the hepatic and renal capacity to detoxify the chemical. Premature neonates and low-birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity.


serious adverse effects


Alprostadil may cause serious adverse effects, such as apnea, in neonates with congenital heart defects treated with intravenous alprostadil. Apnea is most often seen in premature neonates weighing less than 2 kg at birth and usually occurs during the first hour of drug infusion. Monitor respiratory status throughout treatment. Neonatal use of alprostadil requires a specialized care setting and should only be undertaken where ventilatory assistance is immediately available.


neonatal respiratory distress syndrome


Avoid alprostadil intravenous infusions in neonates with neonatal respiratory distress syndrome. In these neonates, the ductus arteriosus must close in order to prevent overload of the pulmonary circulation. A differential diagnosis between neonatal respiratory distress syndrome and cyanotic heart disease (restricted pulmonary blood flow) should be made prior to initiating alprostadil therapy. If full diagnostic facilities are not immediately available, cyanosis (pO2 less than 40 torr) and restricted pulmonary blood flow apparent on an X-ray are appropriate indicators of congenital heart defects.


cardiac disease


Use alprostadil for the management of erectile dysfunction (ED) cautiously in adults with cardiac disease. There is a potential for cardiac risk during sexual activity in those with preexisting cardiovascular disease. Medications for ED generally should not be used in men for whom sexual activity is inadvisable because of their underlying cardiovascular status.


bleeding disorder


Alprostadil inhibits platelet aggregation and therefore can increase the risk of bleeding. Use intravenous alprostadil cautiously in patients with bleeding tendencies or a bleeding disorder. Use alprostadil products for erectile dysfunction (ED) cautiously in men with a bleeding disorder, or in those men receiving anticoagulant therapy. Patients on anticoagulants may have increased propensity for bleeding after intracavernous injection, so proper adherence to administration technique is important to avoid hematoma or other bleeding. A small amount of bleeding may occur in any male at the site of intracavernous administration and may increase the transmission of blood-borne diseases to a sexual partner. Improper administration of the alprostadil urethral suppository may cause urethral abrasion resulting in minor bleeding or spotting. Although patients on anticoagulant therapy have been treated safely with the urethral suppository, consider the risk/benefit ratio in these patients prior to prescribing.


penile implants, penile structural abnormality, urethritis


Any underlying and treatable medical cause for erectile dysfunction should be diagnosed and treated before therapy with alprostadil intracavernosal injection or urethral suppository is initiated. The use of alprostadil intracavernosal injection or urethral suppository is contraindicated in individuals with penile structural abnormality. The intracavernosal injection is specifically contraindicated in individuals with penile angulation, cavernosal fibrosis, or Peyronie disease. The urethral suppository is contraindicated in individuals with urethral stricture, balanitis, Peyronie disease, severe hypospadias and curvature, or acute or chronic urethritis. The use of alprostadil intracavernosal injection in individuals with penile implants is also contraindicated; use of alprostadil urethral suppository has not been studied in individuals with penile implants. Both of these products are contraindicated in individuals for whom sexual intercourse is inadvisable or contraindicated.


hyperviscosity, leukemia, multiple myeloma, polycythemia, sickle cell disease, sickle cell trait, thrombophilia


The use of alprostadil intracavernosal injection or urethral suppository is contraindicated in patients who are prone to thrombophilia or who have a hyperviscosity syndrome and are therefore at increased risk of priapism. This includes patients with sickle cell disease or sickle cell trait, polycythemia, leukemia, or multiple myeloma. Prolonged erections greater than 4 hours and priapism (painful erections greater than 6 hours in duration) have been associated with administration of drugs for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, including alprostadil. Priapism, if not treated promptly, can result in irreversible damage to the erectile tissue. Advise men who have an erection lasting 4 hours or greater, whether painful or not, to seek emergency medical attention. Consider lower dosages or discontinuation of treatment in patients who develop priapism or prolonged erection.


pregnancy


There are limited data on the use of alprostadil during pregnancy based on its FDA-approved indications. Animal data report embryotoxic effects when alprostadil is given subcutaneously and intravenously. Intravaginal administration of up to 4,000 mcg/day of alprostadil to pregnant rabbits (about 12.5 times the maximum recommended human daily dose adjusted for body surface area) resulted in no evidence of harm to the fetus. People who use the urethral suppository and have a partner who is pregnant or of reproductive potential should use caution. Human semen contains prostaglandin E1 (PGE1); however, additional amounts may be present from administration of the urethral suppository, and there are no data on the effects of how these increased levels may affect early pregnancy.


geriatric, renal failure, renal impairment


Alprostadil is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions during intracavernous use may be greater in those with renal impairment or renal failure. Since geriatric individuals are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, reproductive risk


Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with alprostadil urethral suppositories. People with partners of reproductive potential should use effective contraception. The suppository should not be used for sexual intercourse with a pregnant person unless the couple uses a condom barrier.


breast-feeding


Alprostadil is not indicated for use in breast-feeding people. There are no data on the presence of alprostadil in human milk or its effects on the breast-fed child.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are limited data on the use of alprostadil during pregnancy based on its FDA-approved indications. Animal data report embryotoxic effects when alprostadil is given subcutaneously and intravenously. Intravaginal administration of up to 4,000 mcg/day of alprostadil to pregnant rabbits (about 12.5 times the maximum recommended human daily dose adjusted for body surface area) resulted in no evidence of harm to the fetus. People who use the urethral suppository and have a partner who is pregnant or of reproductive potential should use caution. Human semen contains prostaglandin E1 (PGE1); however, additional amounts may be present from administration of the urethral suppository, and there are no data on the effects of how these increased levels may affect early pregnancy.


Interactions

Acebutolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
aMILoride: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as spironolactone or other potassium-sparing diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as spironolactone or other potassium-sparing diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
amLODIPine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Atenolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Azilsartan: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Benazepril: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Beta-blockers: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Betaxolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Bisoprolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Bumetanide: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Candesartan: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Captopril: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Carteolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Carvedilol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and central-acting antihypertensive agents may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Clevidipine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
cloNIDine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and central-acting antihypertensive agents may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Diazoxide: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as the vasodilators, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
dilTIAZem: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Doxazosin: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Eplerenone: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as eplerenone, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Epoprostenol: (Minor) Systemic alprostadil and epoprostenol are both prostaglandins that reduce blood pressure, and would not be commonly prescribed together at the same time. The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and epoprostenol would be expected to cause additive hypotension. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Esmolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Felodipine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Fenoldopam: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as the vasodilators, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Fosinopril: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Furosemide: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
guanFACINE: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and central-acting antihypertensive agents may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Heparin: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the concomitant administration of alprostadil injection for dilation of the ductus arteriosis and heparin infusions. Coadministration resulted in a 140% increase in partial thromboplastin time and a 120% increase in thrombin time in a study of 12 healthy volunteers receiving alprostadil 90 mcg infusion over 3 hours and heparin 5000 units. Monitor patients for increased bleeding if these agents are used together.
hydrALAZINE: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as the vasodilators, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as the vasodilators, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Ibuprofen lysine: (Contraindicated) As ibuprofen lysine is used for the pharmacologic closure of patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), do not administer to patients who require alprostadil injection for dilation of the ductus arteriosus for oxygenation and perfusion. Alprostadil injection for pediatric use (Prostin VR) has been used with the standard therapy for neonates with restricted pulmonary or systemic blood flow which includes antibiotics (e.g., penicillin and gentamicin), vasopressors (e.g., dopamine, isoproterenol), cardiac glycosides, and diuretics (e.g., furosemide).
Iloprost: (Minor) Systemic alprostadil and epoprostenol are both prostaglandins that reduce blood pressure, and would not be commonly prescribed together at the same time. The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and epoprostenol would be expected to cause additive hypotension. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Irbesartan: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Isradipine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Labetalol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Landiolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Levamlodipine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Levobunolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Lisinopril: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Loop diuretics: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Losartan: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Mecamylamine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as mecamylamine, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Methyldopa: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and central-acting antihypertensive agents may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
metOLazone: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Metoprolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Minoxidil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as the vasodilators, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Moexipril: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Nadolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Nebivolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
NiCARdipine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
NIFEdipine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
niMODipine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Nisoldipine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Nitroprusside: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as the vasodilators, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Olmesartan: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Perindopril: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as phenoxybenzamine, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Pindolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as spironolactone or other potassium-sparing diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Prazosin: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as prazosin, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Propranolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Quinapril: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Ramipril: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Sotalol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Spironolactone: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as spironolactone or other potassium-sparing diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as spironolactone or other potassium-sparing diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Telmisartan: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Terazosin: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Timolol: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as beta-clockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Torsemide: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Trandolapril: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Treprostinil: (Minor) Systemic alprostadil and treprostinil are both prostaglandins that reduce blood pressure, and would not be commonly prescribed together at the same time. The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and treprostinil would be expected to cause additive hypotension. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Triamterene: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as spironolactone or other potassium-sparing diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as spironolactone or other potassium-sparing diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Valsartan: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Vasodilators: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as the vasodilators, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Verapamil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

Postmortem tissue sections of the ductus and pulmonary arteries from infants treated with alprostadil infusions at the usual doses for 10 hours to 12 days and who died of causes unrelated to ductus structural weakness have shown intimal lacerations, a decrease in medial muscularity, and disruption of the medial and internal elastic lamina. Localized and aneurysmal dilatations and vessel wall edema were also noted. The incidence and clinical implications of these structural alterations has not been defined.

apnea, bleeding, drowsiness, fever, hypothermia, irritability, lethargy, respiratory depression, seizures, tachypnea, wheezing


Central nervous system adverse reactions of alprostadil are reported more frequently after intravenous administration (i.e., when used for ductus arteriosus maintenance). Apnea has been reported in approximately 10% to 12% of neonates and infants with congenital heart defects treated with alprostadil and was most seen in neonates weighing less than 2 kg at birth. Apnea usually occurred during the first hour of drug infusion. Alprostadil for intravenous injection (Prostin VR Pediatric) contains ethanol (79% w/v). Ethanol can act as a CNS depressant, causing somnolence or drowsiness. Co-administration with other medications containing propylene glycol or ethanol may lead to ethanol accumulation and an increased risk of adverse reactions, particularly in young children with immature metabolic capacity. Other respiratory adverse reactions occurring in less than 1% of patients include bradypnea, bronchial wheezing, hypercapnia, respiratory depression, respiratory distress, and tachypnea. Other common adverse reactions include fever (14%) and seizures (4%). The following adverse reactions have been reported in less than 1% of patients receiving IV alprostadil: cerebral bleeding, hyperextension of the neck, irritability (reported as hyperirritability), hypothermia, jitteriness, lethargy, and stiffness.


AV block, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, dizziness, edema, flushing, heart failure, hyperemia, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, peripheral vasodilation, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), syncope, ventricular fibrillation


Cardiovascular adverse effects have been reported with alprostadil. Alprostadil associated hypotension has been reported following use for treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED), as well as with intravenous use in neonates. Elevated alprostadil concentrations, especially in individuals with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, may cause hypotension, dizziness, or rarely syncope. Monitor for hypotension and use the lowest effective ED dose. Avoid combining with other vasoactive agents due to increased hypotensive risk. Transurethral administration causes approximately 3% of male adult patients to develop symptomatic hypotension; clinically insignificant hypotension may also occur; intracavernosal injection causes hypotension in less than 1% of male adult patients and is considered clinically insignificant. Intracavernosal alprostadil can also result in hypertension (reported in 2% of patients). In male adult patients receiving alprostadil transurethral suppositories, approximately 2% to 4% reported dizziness, and less than 2% reported sinus tachycardia, and 0.4% had syncope. Dizziness (1%), peripheral vasodilation (less than 1%), and supraventricular extrasystoles (less than 1%) have also been reported with alprostadil intracavernous injection. During postmarketing surveillance, syncope occurring within 1 hour of administration has been reported. Additionally, myocardial infarction and abnormal ECG have been reported in 1% of adult male patients treated with intracavernous alprostadil. In neonates receiving alprostadil infusions, common cardiovascular adverse reactions include sinus bradycardia (7%), hypotension (4%), sinus tachycardia (3%), cardiac arrest (1%), and edema (1%). Less common reactions (less than 1%) include congestive heart failure, hyperemia, second degree heart block (AV block), shock, spasm of the right ventricle infundibulum, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), and ventricular fibrillation. Measure arterial pressure intermittently by umbilical artery catheter, auscultation, or Doppler transducer. If arterial pressure drops significantly, decrease the infusion rate; discontinue if bradycardia occurs and provide supportive care. Use caution when restarting the infusion. Flushing occurs in approximately 10% of neonates receiving alprostadil infusions and is more common with intra-arterial infusions. When flushing occurs in a patient receiving alprostadil via umbilical artery catheter (UAC), assess the catheter placement because flushing is often the result of incorrect catheter placement. Flushing may also be a symptom of excessive dosage.


back pain, ecchymosis, erythema, headache, hematoma, injection site reaction, muscle cramps, mydriasis, penile edema, penile fibrosis, penile pain, perineal pain, peripheral edema, phimosis, priapism, pruritus, rhinitis, testicular pain, urethral pain, visual impairment


Local adverse reactions associated with alprostadil used for treating erectile dysfunction were usually mild and transient; however, approximately 7% of patients withdrew from therapy because of adverse reactions. The most frequent local adverse reactions reported with the use of alprostadil urethral suppository include penile pain (32% to 36%), urethral pain (12% to 13%), and testicular pain (5%). Urethral bleeding or spotting and other minor abrasions to the urethra were reported in approximately 3% to 5% of patients. In clinical trials of alprostadil urethral suppository, priapism (rigid erection lasting 4 hours or longer) was reported in 2 of 1,511 patients (0.13%). The most common local adverse reactions reported with alprostadil administered by intracavernosal injection include penile pain (29% to 37%), penile fibrosis (3% to 5%), injection site reaction (local bleeding (15%), hematoma (3% to 5%), ecchymosis (2% to 4%), erythema (2%)), penis disorder (numbness, yeast infection, phimosis, irritation, sensitivity, pruritus, erythema, discoloration of penile head, penile skin tear, abnormal feeling of penis) (3%), penile rash (1%), penile edema (1%), penile angulation (1%), and testicular pain (1%). Most cases of hematoma and ecchymosis were due to faulty injection technique. Prolonged erection (an erection lasting between 4 and 6 hours) and priapism (erection lasting more than 6 hours in duration) were reported in 4% and 0.4% of patients, respectively, following intracavernosal injection. This incidence of priapism is reportedly less than that of combined phentolamine and papaverine or papaverine alone. The patient should be instructed to seek immediate medical assistance for any erection that persists for longer than 4 hours. If not treated immediately, penile tissue damage and permanent loss of potency may result. Systemic adverse reactions of alprostadil associated with intracavernosal or transurethral administration (i.e., when used for erectile dysfunction) include headache (2% to 3%), mydriasis (less than 1%), visual impairment (1%), back pain (1% to 2%), leg or muscle cramps (less than 1%), flu-like symptoms (2% to 4%), inguinal hernia (1%), pelvic pain (2%), peripheral edema, perineal pain (less than 2%), swelling of leg veins (less than 2%), leg pain (less than 2%), prostatic disorder (prostatitis, pain, hypertrophy, enlargement; 1% to 2%), respiratory disorder such as rhinitis (2%), sinusitis (1% to 2%), nasal congestion (1%), upper respiratory infection (3% to 5%), or cough (1%), and accidental injury (3%). Alprostadil injection uses a superfine needle for administration. As with all superfine needles, the possibility of needle breakage exists. Careful instruction in proper patient handling and injection techniques may minimize the potential for needle breakage. If needle breakage occurs upon injection into the tissue, the patient should seek medical assistance to help avoid local trauma or injury. Cases of needle breakage, with a portion of the needle remaining in the penis, have been reported with postmarketing use. In some cases, hospitalization and surgical removal were required.


anemia, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), thrombocytopenia


Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) has been reported in approximately 1% of neonatal patients receiving intravenous administration of alprostadil (i.e., for ductus arteriosus maintenance). In addition, anemia, bleeding, and thrombocytopenia have been reported in less than 1%, and sepsis reported in about 2%, of neonatal patients receiving intravenous administration of alprostadil.


vaginal irritation


Female partners of men using alprostadil urethral suppository (i.e., when used for erectile dysfunction) have reported adverse reactions. Vaginal irritation (i.e., vaginal burning or itching) was reported by 5.8% of female partners of patients on active vs 0.8% of partners of patients on placebo. It is unknown if these adverse reactions in female partners were a result of the medication or a result of resuming sexual intercourse.


diarrhea, gastroesophageal reflux, GI obstruction, hyperbilirubinemia, nausea, xerostomia


GI obstruction (gastric outlet obstruction) secondary to antral hyperplasia is the most serious GI adverse reaction associated with parenteral alprostadil. The effect appears to be related to the duration of therapy and cumulative dose. Monitor patients who receive alprostadil for greater than 120 hours for evidence of antral hyperplasia and gastric outlet obstruction. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest length of time. Diarrhea occurred in about 2% of treated neonates and gastric regurgitation (gastroesophageal reflux), hyperbilirubinemia, and peritonitis were reported in less than 1% of neonatal patients. Nausea and dry mouth (xerostomia) were reported in less than 1% of patients treated with alprostadil intracavernous injection (i.e., used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction) in clinical trials.


diaphoresis, hypoesthesia, rash, weakness


Hypoesthesia, generalized weakness, diaphoresis, rash, and non-application site pruritus were reported in less than 1% of male patients treated with alprostadil intracavernous injection (for the treatment of erectile dysfunction) in clinical trials.


anuria, hematuria, increased urinary frequency, urinary retention, urinary urgency


Urinary adverse reactions reported in less than 1% of male adult patients treated with alprostadil intracavernous injection for erectile dysfunction (ED) in clinical trials include impaired urination or urinary retention, increased urinary frequency, urinary urgency, and increased serum creatinine. The use of the alprostadil transurethral system requires proper patient instructions for use; some adults with ED have reported confusion about how to properly use the system and this sometimes leading to urethral hemorrhage (urinary bleeding and hematuria).   Hematuria and anuria were reported in less than 1% of neonatal patients following intravenous administration of alprostadil when used for ductus arteriosus maintenance.


hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hypoglycemia


Hypertriglyceridemia (2%), hypercholesterolemia (1%), and hyperglycemia (1%) have been reported with alprostadil intracavernous injection (for erectile dysfunction) in adult males treated during clinical trials. Hypoglycemia and hyperkalemia were reported in less than 1% of neonatal patients following intravenous administration of alprostadil (i.e., when used for ductus arteriosus maintenance).


Description

Alprostadil is used to treat erectile dysfunction (ED) in adult males. The efficacy of alprostadil in treating ED varies with the cause; response rate is generally lower in patients with ED due to mixed etiologies compared to those with ED due to neurogenic, psychogenic, or vasculogenic causes. Two dosage forms are marketed for treating ED in adult males: a transurethral product (MUSE) which uses a medicated pellet administered into the urethra, and an injection (Caverject or Edex) that is directly injected into the corpus cavernosa. According to ED treatment guidelines, oral phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (PDE5 inhibitors) are considered first-line therapy. Second-line treatment options include intracavernous injection and intraurethral therapy. Intracavernous injection therapy is the most effective nonsurgical treatment for ED, with predictable and sustained response; however, it is invasive and caries notable side effects including priapism and penile fibrosis.
 
Alprostadil is also used for other purposes. Alprostadil and other prostaglandins in the E series are naturally present in the placenta and ductus arteriosus of the fetus. The E-type prostaglandins vasodilate arterioles by direct relaxation of vascular smooth muscle. Other pharmacologic effects include increase in cardiac output, dilation of both systemic and pulmonary vessels, dilation of the ductus arteriosus, inhibition of platelet aggregation, relaxation of bronchial muscle, increase in renal blood flow, and delay of gastric emptying time. Intravenous alprostadil is used in neonates with obstruction of right or left ventricular outflow to maintain the patency of the ductus arteriosus up until the time of corrective or palliative surgery. Alprostadil is generally more effective in those neonates with low pretreatment blood PO2 and who are 4 days old or less. In neonates older than 4 days, there is a decrease in ductal smooth muscle reactivity due to postnatal involutional changes in the wall of the ductus arteriosus. Intravenous alprostadil requires respiratory monitoring during administration because apnea develops in 10% to 12% of neonates. Intravenous alprostadil (Prostin VR Pediatric) is FDA approved in pediatric patients as young as neonates.

Mechanism Of Action

Alprostadil is a smooth muscle relaxant. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED), alprostadil binds to specific receptors in human penile tissue, which causes an increase in intracellular cAMP. Human cavernosus smooth muscle cells respond to alprostadil by releasing intracellular calcium into the surrounding medium. Smooth muscle relaxation accompanies the reduction in cytoplasmic free calcium concentration. Alprostadil also attenuates presynaptic noradrenaline release in the corpus cavernosum which is essential for the maintenance of a flaccid and non-erect penis. An erection is induced by relaxing trabecular smooth muscle and dilating cavernosal arteries. Dilation of the cavernosal arteries is accompanied by increased arterial inflow velocity and increased venous outflow resistance. As a result, the lacunar spaces expand and blood becomes entrapped secondary to compression of venules against the tunica albuginea. This process is also referred to as the corporal veno-occlusive mechanism.
 
Alprostadil (prostaglandin E1) is one of a family of naturally occurring acidic lipids with various pharmacologic effects. Vasodilation, inhibition of platelet aggregation, and stimulation of intestinal and uterine smooth muscle are among the most notable of these effects. In the treatment of ductus arteriosus-dependent congenital heart defects, alprostadil maintains ductal patency by relaxing the smooth muscles of the ductus arteriosus. Alprostadil is only effective if given prior to complete anatomic closure of the ductus arteriosus. Administration of alprostadil to neonates with cyanotic congenital heart defects (restricted pulmonary blood flow) results in an increase in pulmonary blood flow and/or increase in mixing between the systemic and pulmonary circulation which leads to a temporary increase in arterial oxygen partial pressure (PO2) and oxygen saturation. The response of the cyanotic neonate to alprostadil therapy is also inversely related to pretreatment PO2. The greatest response appears to be in those neonates with low pretreatment PO2 (less than 20 torr), narrowing ductus arteriosus, and who are 4 days old or younger. Neonates with PO2 values of 40 torr or more usually have little response to alprostadil. In neonates with restricted systemic blood flow, administration of alprostadil can result in prevention or correction of acidemia, increased cardiac output with increased systemic blood pressure, increased femoral pulse volume, increased renal blood flow and function, decreased gradient of descending to ascending aortic blood pressures (in neonates with coarctation of the aorta), and/or decreased ratio of pulmonary artery pressure to descending aortic pressure (in neonates with interruption of the aortic arch). Unlike in cyanotic neonates, the efficacy of alprostadil in acyanotic neonates does not depend on age or pretreatment PO2.

Pharmacokinetics

Alprostadil is administered by intravenous infusion, intracavernosal injection, or via an urethral suppository. Once in the systemic circulation, alprostadil is bound primarily to albumin (81%). No significant binding to erythrocytes or white blood cells occurs. Alprostadil is completely metabolized in the lung to several metabolites with a first-pass pulmonary elimination of 60% to 90% of PGE1. The main metabolites (15-keto-PGE1, 15-keto-PGE0, and PGE0) are primarily excreted in the urine (88%) and feces (12%) over 72 hours; total excretion is essentially complete within 24 hours after administration. The terminal half-life of PGE1 is approximately 9 to 11 minutes.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

Intravenous administration of alprostadil requires a continuous infusion of the drug because approximately 80% of the dose is metabolized in one pass through the lungs, mostly by beta- and omega-oxidation. There is no evidence of tissue retention of alprostadil or its metabolites following IV administration.

Other Route(s)

Intracavernosal Route
After intracavernosal administration, minimal systemic absorption occurs. After intracavernous injection of 20 mcg of alprostadil, peak concentrations of 16.8 +/- 18.9 pg/mL were reached within 2 to 5 minutes and decreased to endogenous plasma levels within 2 hours. The absolute bioavailability estimated from systemic exposure was 98% as compared to the same dose given by short-term IV infusion. Any alprostadil absorbed by the intracavernous route is rapidly metabolized in the lungs. After intracavernous injection of 20 mcg of alprostadil, terminal half-lives of 15-keto-PGE0 and PGE0 were 40.9 +/- 16.5 minutes and 63.2 +/- 31.1 minutes, respectively. Following intracavernosal administration, erection usually occurs within 5 to 20 minutes and may last for about 1 to several hours. Tolerance to the beneficial vascular effects does not appear to occur.
 
Intraurethral Route
After intraurethral administration, minimal systemic absorption occurs. Any alprostadil absorbed by this route is rapidly metabolized. Alprostadil given via the urethra is delivered directly to the urethral lining for transfer via the corpus spongiosum to the corpora cavernosa. The onset of effect is within 5 to 10 minutes after urethral administration and the duration of effect is approximately 30 to 60 minutes and will vary from patient to patient.

Hepatic Impairment

In a study in symptomatic patients with hepatic impairment who were administered 120 mcg of alprostadil by IV infusion over 2 hours, the mean Cmax value of PGE1 was 96% higher compared to that in healthy volunteers. Mean Cmax values of both 15-keto-PGE0 and PGE0 increased 65% compared to those in healthy volunteers. The terminal half-lives of PGE1, PGE0, and 15-keto-PGE0 were similar in both groups of patients. PGE1 is primarily metabolized in the lung; the mechanism responsible for the observed differences in patients with hepatic impairment is unknown.

Renal Impairment

In a study in symptomatic patients with end-stage-renal disease undergoing dialysis who were administered 120 mcg of alprostadil by IV infusion over 2 hours, the mean Cmax value of PGE1 was 37% lower compared to that in healthy volunteers. However, mean Cmax values of 15-keto-PGE0 and PGE0 increased 104% and 145%, respectively, compared to healthy volunteers. The terminal half-lives of PGE1, PGE0, and 15-keto-PGE0 were similar in both groups of patients. The mechanism responsible for the observed differences in patients with renal impairment is unknown.

Other

Pulmonary Disease
Due to the near-complete pulmonary first pass metabolism of PGE1, patients with pulmonary disease may have impaired elimination of alprostadil. In patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), pulmonary extraction of intravascularly administered alprostadil was decreased by approximately 15% compared to control patients with normal respiratory function (66 +/- 3.2% vs. 78 +/- 2.4%).

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
 
Dilution for Intravenous or Intra-arterial Infusion
Dilute 1 mL (500 mcg) of the concentrate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose Injection to an approximate concentration of 2 to 20 mcg/mL.
When using a device with a volumetric infusion chamber, add the proper amount of diluent to the chamber first and then add the concentrate. Avoid direct contact of the concentrate with the wall of the plastic volumetric infusion chamber, which may change the appearance of the chamber and create a hazy solution. If this occurs, replace the solution and volumetric infusion chamber.
ASHP Recommended Standard Concentrations for Pediatric Continuous Infusions: 5 mcg/mL or 10 mcg/mL.
Maximum concentration should not exceed 20 mcg/mL.
Storage: Store diluted solution at room temperature for up to 24 hours.


Intravenous Administration

Continuous Intravenous Infusion
Infusion into a large vein is the preferred route of administration.
The infusion rate depends on the concentration of the final solution and the desired dosage.
Periodically monitor IV site; ensure reliable IV access because the duration of effect is short and a significant interruption in therapy could have serious adverse consequences.
Closely monitor respiratory status, cardiovascular status, and temperature during alprostadil administration. Facilities and equipment for assisted ventilation should be readily available.


Other Injectable Administration

Intra-arterial Infusion [i.e., umbilical artery catheter (UAC) positioned at the ductal opening]
The infusion rate depends on the concentration of the final solution and the desired dosage.
Ensure reliable UAC access because the duration of alprostadil's effect is short and a significant interruption in therapy could have serious adverse consequences.
Flushing may be the result of an incorrectly positioned intra-arterial catheter; assess catheter placement if flushing occurs.
Closely monitor respiratory status, cardiovascular status, and temperature during alprostadil administration. Facilities and equipment for assisted ventilation should be readily available.
 
Intracavernous Administration
Discussion with the patient about expectations of alprostadil therapy is important. Therapy should be initiated under the supervision of a health care provider to test a patient's responsiveness and to demonstrate proper administration technique. Patient education can minimize the likelihood of local adverse effects associated with faulty administration technique.
Patient self-injection should only begin after the patient has received and reviewed a copy of the patient instructions provided by the manufacturer and has been instructed carefully and trained well about proper administration techniques. Follow-up visits with the prescribing health care provider should occur every 3 months or as clinically appropriate to assist the patient in adjusting to alprostadil therapy and assess safety and efficacy of the treatment.
Remind patient not to exceed dose limits. The maximum frequency of use is no more than 1 injection per 24-hour period and no more than 3 injections per week.
 
Reconstitution of CAVERJECT
Refer to the patient information and 'Instructions for Use' in the manufacturer label for complete detailed instructions on reconstitution and needle preparation steps.
Ensure proper vial strength is selected for the dose to be administered (20 or 40 mcg vial).
Reconstitute Caverject vials by adding 1 mL of bacteriostatic water for injection to vial. (NOTE: The syringe/needle should be in a straight line with the Caverject vial when injecting the diluent into the sterile powder vial and when removing the correct dose for injection from the Caverject vial).
After adding the diluent but before removing the syringe from the vial, the contents of the vial should be swirled gently until a clear solution is obtained. Do not use the solution if it is cloudy, colored, or contains particles.
The desired dose can then be withdrawn into the same syringe.
Replace the needle used for reconstitution with a 29 or 30-gauge 1/2 inch needle prior to injection.
Storage: Unused reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours if stored below 25 degrees C (77 degrees F) and not refrigerated or frozen.
 
Reconstitution of CAVERJECT IMPULSE
Refer to the patient information and "Instructions for Use' in the manufacturer label for complete detailed instructions on preparing the syringe and injection preparation steps.
Ensure proper Caverject Impulse syringe is selected for the dose to be administered (10 or 20 mcg syringe).
Prepare the injection immediately before use.
Open the sealed plastic tray and remove the syringe, needle assembly, and alcohol swabs. Swab the rubber membrane at the tip of the syringe.
Pick up the needle assembly, grasp the paper tab, and peel off the paper cover. Hold the needle assembly by the cap and press the needle assembly onto the tip of the syringe. Turn it clockwise until the needle assembly is firmly locked into place.
Remove the outer protective cap from the needle by twisting it clockwise. Do not remove the inner protective cap (thin plastic tube covering the needle).
Hold the syringe system with the needle pointing upward. The plunger rod should still be fully extended with all threads visible. Slowly rotate the plunger rod clockwise until it goes all the way in and stops. Do not push on the plunger while trying to rotate it.
Turn the syringe upside down several times to make sure the solution is evenly mixed. The solution should be clear. Do not use if discoloration or particles are present.
Holding the syringe with needle upward, carefully remove the inner protective cap from the needle. Lightly tap the glass cartridge a few times with your finger until any large bubbles disappear up into the tip. With the syringe pointed upward, push in the plunger rod until it stops to push any air out.
Set the dose by locating the dose window on the syringe and slowly turning the plunger rod clockwise until the correct dose number appears in the center of the window. If the correct number is passed, keep turning the plunger in the same direction until the correct number comes around again. Do not try to turn the syringe backwards. The syringe is now ready for use.
Storage: Unused reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours if stored between 2 degrees C and 25 degrees C (36 F to 77 F). Do not freeze.
Caverject Impulse is for single-use only. Properly discard the entire injection delivery system and any remaining solution after use.
 
Reconstitution of EDEX
Prepare the injection immediately before use.
The Edex injection device is used to reconstitute the single-dose dual-chamber cartridge. Use the plunger and force the sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride injection (1.075 mL) in one chamber into the other chamber containing alprostadil.
After reconstitution, the Edex injection device is used to administer the dose of alprostadil; use only with the cartridges and needles supplied in the Edex cartridge packs.
Do not administer unless solution is clear. Do not add any drugs or solutions to the injection solution. Discard unused drug solution. The reconstituted injection solution should not be stored.
 
Intracavernous Injection Administration
Alprostadil intracavernosal injection cartridge devices are designed for one-time use. After the single-use, the injection device and remaining solution should be discarded. Of note, the needle used for administration of alprostadil solution is a superfine (27 to 30-gauge) needle; with such a fine needle, breakage is possible. Patients should be carefully instructed on proper injection technique to minimize the risk of needle breakage. Needles or syringes should not be shared.
The head of the penis should be held between the thumb and forefinger and stretched lengthwise along the thigh while sitting upright or slightly reclined. The needle of the syringe is then positioned so that the drug will be injected into a corpus cavernosum underneath the tunica albuginea along the dorsolateral aspect of the proximal third of the penis. Visible veins should be avoided. Blood vessels, corpus spongiosum, subcutaneous tissue, urethra, and dorsal neural vascular structures should be avoided as injection sites.
Once positioned, the needle of the syringe provided by the manufacturer should be pushed straight into the site using a steady motion until the metal portion of the needle is almost entirely in the penis; the dose should then be injected slowly over 5 to 10 seconds into the chosen corpus cavernosum.
The syringe should be withdrawn and pressure applied to the injection site with an alcohol swab for 5 minutes (or until bleeding stops) to avoid hematologic complications, especially in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulant therapy. Injection site and side of the penis should be rotated to minimize adverse effects related to repeated local injection.
Patient should be cautioned against use of severely bent needles and should not attempt to straighten a bent needle as this can increase the risk of breakage. Patient should also avoid reuse of syringes and needles. Give patient instructions on proper disposal of syringes and needles in the puncture-resistant container provided by the manufacturer.


Other Administration Route(s)

Intraurethral Administration
Alprostadil (MUSE) is administered as an urethral suppository.
The initial dose titration should occur under the supervision of a physician in order to test a patient's responsiveness, to demonstrate proper administration technique, and to monitor for evidence of hypotension.
After the patient has been instructed on proper administration technique, the alprostadil urethral suppository (MUSE) may be self-administered. Advise the patient to read the Patient Information and Instructions for Use (i.e., step-by-step patient instructions).
Remind patients not to exceed recommended dose limits - no more than 2 urethral suppository systems per 24-hour period.
 
Urethral Suppository (MUSE) Administration
The alprostadil urethral suppository (MUSE) is designed to be self-administered after proper education and dose titration.
For urethral insertion only. Do not administer by any other route.
Key administration points:
Immediately prior to administration, patient should urinate and gently shake the penis several times to remove excess urine. The medicated pellet has been specially developed to dissolve in the small quantity of urine that remains in the urethra after urination.
Carefully open the foil pouch and allow the applicator to slide out.
Then remove the protective cover from the applicator stem without pushing the applicator button or touching the applicator stem or tip. Save the foil pouch and cover to later discard the MUSE applicator.
Visually inspect the MUSE system to make sure the pellet is present.
To straighten the urethra, patient should, while sitting or standing, take several seconds to gently and slowly stretch the penis upward to its full length, with gentle compression from top to bottom of the glans.
Slowly insert the MUSE stem into the urethra up to the collar. If any discomfort or a pulling sensation occurs, withdraw the applicator slightly and then gently reinsert.
To administer suppository, gently and completely push down the button at the top of the applicator until it stops to ensure that the medicated pellet is completely released. The patient should then hold the applicator in this position for 5 seconds, then, gently rock the applicator from side to side in order to separate the medicated pellet from the applicator tip. Instruct the patient not to apply too much pressure in order to avoid scratching the lining of the urethra and causing it to bleed.
Remove applicator while keeping the penis upright.
Without touching the stem of the applicator, visually inspect the applicator tip to make sure the pellet is no longer in the applicator. If the suppository is still present, gently reinsert the applicator into the urethra and repeat prior steps.
After administration, instruct patient to hold the penis upright and stretched to its full length and roll the penis firmly between the hands for at least 10 seconds to ensure that the medication is adequately distributed along the walls of the urethra. The penis may feel warm and sensitive to the touch. This effect is normal and may last a few hours.
Disposition (Throwing away): To dispose of unit, replace the protective cover on the applicator. Place it in the opened foil pouch and throw away in household trash.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Dependent on indication for therapy and product prescribed.

Geriatric

Dependent on indication for therapy and product prescribed.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Doses greater than 0.4 mcg/kg/minute IV of Prostin VR Pediatric are not recommended.

Dosage Forms

Alprostadil 500mcg/1mL Solution for injection [Ductus Arteriosus Patency]

Alprostadil Bulk powder

Caverject 20mcg Powder for Injection

Caverject 40mcg Powder for Injection

Caverject Impulse 10mcg Dual Chamber Injection System

Caverject Impulse 20mcg Dual Chamber Injection System

edex cartridge 10mcg Powder for Injection

edex cartridge 20mcg Powder for Injection

edex cartridge 40mcg Powder for Injection

Prostin VR Pediatric 500mcg/ml Solution for Injection

Prostin VR Pediatric 500mcg/mL Solution for Injection (NOVAPLUS)

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier