=== Phentermine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1513)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Phentermine is an oral, centrally-acting stimulant and sympathomimetic amine.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 37.5 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, dysphoria, euphoria, headache, insomnia, psychosis, restlessness, tremor, angina, hypertension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, dysgeusia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, libido increase, physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal, dyspnea, peripheral edema, pulmonary hypertension, syncope

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Phentermine is contraindicated in patients with advanced arteriosclerosis, agitated states, moderate to severe hypertension, or glaucoma. Phentermine is contraindicated for use in patients with symptomatic cardiac disease including cardiac arrhythmias and valvular heart disease.

Brand Names
  - Adipex-P
  - Atti-Plex P
  - Atti-Plex P Spansule
  - Fastin
  - Ionamin
  - Lomaira
  - Pro-Fast HS
  - Pro-Fast SA
  - Pro-Fast SR
  - Suprenza
  - Tara-8

Dosage Forms
  - Adipex-P 37.5mg Capsule
  - Lomaira 8mg Tablet
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 11.25mg, Topiramate 69mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 15mg Oral capsule
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 15mg, Topiramate 92mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 3.75mg, Topiramate 23mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 30mg Oral capsule
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 37.5mg Oral capsule
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 37.5mg Oral tablet
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 7.5mg, Topiramate 46mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 8mg Oral tablet
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride Bulk powder
  - Qsymia 11.25mg-69mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - Qsymia 15mg-92mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - Qsymia 3.75mg-23mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - Qsymia 7.5mg-46mg Extended-Release Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (capsules or 37.5 mg tablets)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        15 to 37.5 mg PO once daily or 18.75 mg PO twice daily. Short-term pharmacotherapy, such as with phentermine, has not been shown to produce longer-term health benefits in individuals affected by obesity and cannot be generally recommended. Phentermine should not be used for long-term weight management; tolerance to the anorectic effect of stimulants has been demonstrated.
        Heading
        Adolescents 17 years
        Dosage Description
        15 to 37.5 mg PO once daily or 18.75 mg PO twice daily. Phentermine should not be used for long-term weight management; tolerance to the anorectic effect of stimulants has been demonstrated.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (8 mg tablets)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        4 or 8 mg PO 3 times daily. Short-term pharmacotherapy, such as with phentermine, has not been shown to produce longer-term health benefits in individuals affected by obesity and cannot be generally recommended. Phentermine should not be used for long-term weight management; tolerance to the anorectic effect of stimulants has been demonstrated.
        Heading
        Adolescents 17 years
        Dosage Description
        4 or 8 mg PO 3 times daily. Phentermine should not be used for long-term weight management; tolerance to the anorectic effect of stimulants has been demonstrated.
    Heading
    For the treatment of obesity as a short-term adjunct to reduced-calorie diet and lifestyle modifications

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Phentermine is contraindicated in patients with advanced arteriosclerosis, agitated states, moderate to severe hypertension, or glaucoma. Phentermine is contraindicated for use in patients with symptomatic cardiac disease including cardiac arrhythmias and valvular heart disease. Valvular heart disease has been reported in women receiving the combination of fenfluramine and phentermine (FDA Public Health Advisory, July 8, 1997). The safety and efficacy of combination therapy with phentermine and any other drug products for weight loss, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, sertraline, fluvoxamine, paroxetine), have not been established. Therefore, coadministration of these drug products for weight loss is not recommended. Further, primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) has been reported to occur in patients receiving a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine. The possibility of an association between the use of phentermine alone and PPH or valvular heart disease cannot be ruled out. The initial symptom of PPH is usually dyspnea. Other initial symptoms include: angina pectoris, syncope, or lower extremity edema. Patients should be advised to report immediately any deterioration in exercise tolerance. Treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop new, unexplained symptoms of dyspnea, angina pectoris, syncope, or lower extremity edema.
 
Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic agent, it is contraindicated in patients with hyperthyroidism. It should also be used with caution in patients with thyroid disease.
 
Phentermine should not be administered during or within 14 days following the use of MAOI therapy or other drugs with MAO-inhibiting activity. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or drugs that possess MAO-inhibiting activity such as furazolidone or procarbazine, can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of phentermine.
 
Abrupt discontinuation of phentermine after prolonged high doses may result in severe mental depression or extreme fatigue; sleep EEG changes have also been noted. Gradual withdrawal of therapy is recommended.
 
Phentermine is chemically and pharmacologically related to the amphetamines which have been extensively abused.Obesity treatment with phentermine should be tried only in weight reduction programs for whom alternative therapies, including repeated dietary modifications and exercise, have not worked. Physiological dependence can occur with prolonged administration of phentermine. The appetite suppressant is not recommend for use in those patients with a history of anorexia nervosa or other eating disorders. Use should be avoided in patients with a known history of substance abuse. Risk versus benefit should be weighed in patients with a history of alcoholism, major depression, or suicidal ideation. The least amount reasonable should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to limit the potential for overuse or drug diversion.
 
Symptoms of chronic intoxication include insomnia, irritability, change in personality, and psychotic symptoms that may be clinically indistinguishable from other psychotic disorders, like schizophrenia. Phentermine could aggravate certain mental conditions, such as those patients who exhibit highly nervous or agitated behavior, including psychosis, mania, or severe anxiety.
 
Phentermine is classified pregnancy category C. Safe use of phentermine during pregnancy has not been established. Phentermine should not be taken by pregnant women or by women who may become pregnant unless, in the opinion of the physician, the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards.
 
It is not known whether phentermine and its metabolites are excreted in breast milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse effects in the nursing infants, breast-feeding while taking phentermine is not recommended.
 
Safety and effectiveness of phentermine in children have not been established. Phentermine is not recommended for patients under 16 years of age.
 
Use phentermine cautiously in patients with diabetes mellitus. Insulin requirements may be altered in these patients when using phentermine and changing dietary regimens.
 
The use of phentermine may cause dizziness, mask signs of fatigue or the need for rest, or impair the ability of a patient to participate in activities that require mental alertness. Patients should not perform such tasks, including driving or operating machinery, until they are aware of how this medication affects them. Debilitated patients or the elderly may be more susceptible to the CNS and sympathomimetic side effects of the phentermine; use with caution in elderly patients.
 
The use of inhalational anesthetics during surgery may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetic drugs. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phentermine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Phentermine is also contraindicated in people with a prior history of idiosyncratic reaction to sympathomimetic amines.
    Headline
    cardiovascular disease
    General Information
    Phentermine is contraindicated in individuals with a history of cardiovascular disease including coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, and uncontrolled hypertension. Use phentermine with caution in individuals with even mild hypertension due to a risk of increased blood pressure.
    Headline
    hyperthyroidism
    General Information
    Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic agent, it is contraindicated in people with hyperthyroidism.
    Headline
    agitated state
    General Information
    Phentermine is contraindicated in individuals in an agitated state. Monitor patients closely for changes in moods and behaviors. As with other sympathomimetic agents, treatment may need to be discontinued if restlessness, insomnia, or other adverse effects occur.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    The use of phentermine may cause dizziness, mask signs of fatigue or the need for rest, or impair the ability to participate in activities requiring coordination and concentration. Advise patients to use caution when driving or operating machinery, or performing other tasks that require mental alertness until they are aware of how therapy will affect their mental and/or motor performance. Concomitant ethanol ingestion with phentermine may cause an adverse drug reaction.
    Headline
    glaucoma
    General Information
    Phentermine is contraindicated in individuals with glaucoma. Sympathetic stimulation that occurs with phentermine can block aqueous outflow and raise intraocular pressure. Advise individuals to report any new visual disturbance since an ophthalmic evaluation may be needed.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Use phentermine cautiously in people with diabetes mellitus. Insulin or other antidiabetic medication requirements may be altered when using phentermine due to weight loss and/or altered dietary regimens. Individuals with diabetes should monitor their blood glucose regularly and follow the recommendations of their care team.
    Headline
    substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    Use of phentermine is contraindicated in patients with a history of a substance abuse disorder. Phentermine is chemically and pharmacologically related to the amphetamines which have been extensively abused. Abuse may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction. There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage of these drugs to many times that recommended. Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses, marked insomnia, irritability, hyperactivity and personality changes. A severe manifestation of chronic intoxication is psychosis, often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia. The possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program. The least amount reasonable should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to limit the potential for overuse or drug diversion.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Phentermine is substantially eliminated by the kidney. People with renal impairment may be more susceptible to side effects resulting from increased systemic exposure to phentermine. Caution is recommended when administering phentermine to individuals with mild to moderate renal impairment, although no dosage adjustments are required. A reduced maximum daily dose is recommended for people with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2). Avoid use in people with renal failure (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2), including those patients receiving dialysis.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Phentermine is contraindicated during pregnancy because weight loss offers no potential benefit during pregnancy and may result in fetal harm. A minimum weight gain, and no weight loss, is currently recommended for pregnant individuals who are already overweight or obese, due to obligatory weight gain that occurs in maternal tissues during pregnancy. Phentermine has pharmacologic activity similar to amphetamine. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phentermine.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Phentermine is contraindicated during breast-feeding. It is not known whether phentermine is present in human milk; however, based on its small molecular weight (186 Daltons), it would likely transfer into milk in significant quantities. Because of the potential for serious adverse effects in the breastfed child, a decision should be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue the drug.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Phentermine is contraindicated during pregnancy because weight loss offers no potential benefit during pregnancy and may result in fetal harm. A minimum weight gain, and no weight loss, is currently recommended for pregnant individuals who are already overweight or obese, due to obligatory weight gain that occurs in maternal tissues during pregnancy. Phentermine has pharmacologic activity similar to amphetamine. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phentermine.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Phentermine is contraindicated during breast-feeding. It is not known whether phentermine is present in human milk; however, based on its small molecular weight (186 Daltons), it would likely transfer into milk in significant quantities. Because of the potential for serious adverse effects in the breastfed child, a decision should be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue the drug.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ambrisentan: (Major) Sympathomimetics, such as phentermine, can antagonize the effects of vasodilators such as ambrisentan when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Amifampridine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phentermine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phentermine may increase the risk of seizures.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and amoxapine together with caution and close clinical monitoring. Regularly assess blood pressure, heart rate, the efficacy of weight loss treatment, and the emergence of sympathomimetic/adrenergic adverse events. Carefully adjust dosages as clinically indicated. Amoxapine has pharmacologic activity similar to tricylclic antidepressant agents. Phentermine is a sympathomimetic agent related to the amphetamines and may cause additive sympathomimetic effects when combined with amoxapine. CNS effects, such as dizziness, are also possible.
Amphetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established.
Amphetamines: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established.
Angiotensin II: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when arformoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant phentermine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Benzphetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when sympathomimetics are administered with bretylium. The pressor and arrhythmogenic effects of catecholamines are enhanced by bretylium.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Limit the concomitant use of bromocriptine and a sympathomimetic to 10 days or less. Both medications may increase the risk for blood pressure elevations and tachycardia.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including phentermine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including phentermine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent, it should not be used in combination with other psychostimulants.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of clonidine when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for loss of blood pressure control.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine. If unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine and vasoconstrictor agents during nasal and sinus surgery. The risk for nervousness, irritability, convulsions, and other cardiac arrhythmias may increase during coadministration.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Desflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of the sympathomimetics. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phentermine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including phentermine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with phentermine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
DOPamine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with sympathomimetics may result in additive hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity. Dronabinol, THC has been associated with occasional hypotension, hypertension, syncope, and tachycardia. In a study of 7 adult males, combinations of IV cocaine and smoked marijuana, 1 g marijuana cigarette, 0 to 2.7% delta-9-THC, increased the heart rate above levels seen with either agent alone, with increases plateauing at 50 bpm.
Droxidopa: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
EPINEPHrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with phentermine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with phentermine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and phentermine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as phentermine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant salmeterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of the sympathomimetics. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phentermine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Iloprost: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with iloprost. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including iloprost. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue sympathomimetics for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart sympathomimetics until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as sympathomimetics, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Iodixanol: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ioflupane I 123: (Major) Hold phentermine for 5 days, or at least 5 medication half-lives, prior to performing dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging with radiolabeled ioflupane. Phentermine binds to the dopamine transporter which may interfere with striatal tracer binding and increase the risk for a false-positive scan.
Iohexol: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iomeprol: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iopamidol: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iopromide: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ioversol: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Isoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of the sympathomimetics. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phentermine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when ketamine and phentermine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Phentermine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of ketamine.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linezolid: (Major) Phentermine should not be administered during or within 14 days following the use of linezolid. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Drugs that possess MAO-inhibiting activity, such as linezolid, can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of phentermine which may invoke a hypertensive reaction. Additonally, phentermine has a weak ability to dose-dependently raise serotonin levels. Linezolid has the potential for interaction with serotonergic agents, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. If coadministration is necessary, closely monitor for increased blood pressure and signs of serotonin syndrome.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Mecamylamine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by mecamylamine. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Metaproterenol: (Major) Caution and close observation should also be used when metaproterenol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Methamphetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established.
Methyldopa: (Major) Phentermine has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of antihypertensive agents particularly sympatholytic agents such as methyldopa. Concomitant use of phentermine with methyldopa may antagonize the antihypertensive effects of these agents. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between phentermine and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as phentermine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Midodrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed during co-administration of mirtazapine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties. As a drug related to the amphetamines, phentermine has the potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Orlistat: (Moderate) The safety and efficacy of coadministration of phentermine with other products intended for weight loss has not been established.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Phendimetrazine: (Contraindicated) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The safety of phendimetrazine when used with other anorexiants such as phentermine is controversial and concurrent use should be avoided. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia. Similarly, phendimetrazine should not be used in combination with OTC preparations and herbal products that may contain ephedra alkaloids or Ma huang.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Procarbazine: (Major) Because procarbazine exhibits some monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity, sympathomimetic drugs should be avoided. As with MAOIs, the use of a sympathomimetic drug with procarbazine may precipitate hypertensive crisis or other serious side effects. In the presence of MAOIs, drugs that cause release of norepinephrine induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses. In general, do not use a sympathomimetic drug unless clinically necessary (e.g., medical emergencies, agents like dopamine) within the 14 days prior, during or 14 days after procarbazine therapy. If use is necessary within 2 weeks of the MAOI drug, in general the initial dose of the sympathomimetic agent must be greatly reduced. Patients should be counseled to avoid non-prescription (OTC) decongestants and other drug products, weight loss products, and energy supplements that contain sympathomimetic agents.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD and weight loss, non-prescription nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants, and weight loss dietary supplements containing Ephedra. Although sympathomimetics are contraindicated for use with other non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. One case of elevated blood pressure has been reported in a patient during concurrent use of the recommended dose of rasagiline and ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline. One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of another MAO-B inhibitor, selegiline, in combination with ephedrine. It should be noted that the MAO-B selectivity of rasagiline decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose and interactions with sympathomimetics may be more likely to occur at these higher doses.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Riociguat: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with riociguat. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including riociguat. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phentermine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phentermine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant salmeterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) The product label for phentermine contraindicates use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk of hypertensive crisis. Phentermine should generally not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. The manufacturers of selegiline products recommend caution and monitoring of blood pressure during concurrent use with sympathomimetics.
Selexipag: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of the sympathomimetics. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phentermine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent, it should not be used in combination with other psychostimulants.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and phentermine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) The concomitant use of St. John's Wort with phentermine may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Terbutaline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sympathomimetics with beta-agonists might result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with some sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation and effects such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia. Seizures or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation manifested by skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Treprostinil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with treprostinil. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including treprostinil. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Vasopressors: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Use phentermine and vilazodone together with caution; use together might be efficacious for some patients based on available data, provided the patient is on a stable antidepressant regimen and receives close clinical monitoring. Regular appointments to assess the efficacy of the weight loss treatment, the emergence of adverse events, and blood pressure monitoring are recommended. Watch for excessive serotonergic effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome or cardiovascular or pulmonary effects when combined with serotonergic agents. One case report describes adverse reactions with phentermine and the antidepressant fluoxetine. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses, and that phentermine does not additionally increase plasma serotonin levels when combined with other serotonergic agents. In large controlled clinical studies, patients were allowed to start therapy with extended-release phentermine or extended-release phentermine combinations for obesity along with their antidepressants (e.g., SSRIs or SNRIs, but not MAOIs or TCAs) as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior to the initiation of phentermine, and the patient did not have suicidal ideation or more than 1 episode of major depression documented. In analyses of the results, therapy was generally well tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses, based on discontinuation rates and reported adverse events. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal therapies.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and vortioxetine together with caution; use together may be safe and efficacious for some patients based on available data, provided the patient is on a stable antidepressant regimen and receives close clinical monitoring. Regular appointments to assess the efficacy of the weight loss treatment, the emergence of adverse events, and blood pressure monitoring are recommended. Watch for excessive serotonergic effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome or cardiovascular or pulmonary effects when combined with serotonergic agents. One case report has been received of adverse reactions with phentermine and the antidepressant fluoxetine. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses, and that phentermine does not additionally increase plasma serotonin levels when combined with other serotonergic agents. In large controlled clinical studies, patients were allowed to start therapy with phentermine or phentermine; topiramate extended-release for obesity along with their antidepressants (e.g., SSRIs or SNRIs, but not MAOIs or TCAs) as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior to the initiation of phentermine, and the patient did not have suicidal ideation or more than 1 episode of major depression documented. In analyses of the results, therapy was generally well tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses, based on discontinuation rates and reported adverse events. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Adverse reactions associated with phentermine can affect several organ systems. Nervous system adverse reactions include dizziness, dyskinesia, dysphoria, euphoria, headache, insomnia, overstimulation, restlessness, and tremor. Psychosis at recommended doses may occur rarely in some patients. Ocular adverse effects of phentermine include blurred vision, mydriasis, and ocular irritation. Cardiovascular adverse effects include hypertension, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Adverse gastrointestinal effects of phentermine include constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, nausea/vomiting, and xerostomia. Other adverse reactions include impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido increase, libido decrease, and urticaria.Tolerance to the anorexiant effects of phentermine usually develops within a few weeks of starting therapy. The mechanism of tolerance appears to be pharmacodynamic in nature; higher doses of phentermine are required to produce the same response. When tolerance develops to the anorexiant effects, it is generally recommended that phentermine be discontinued rather than the dose increased. The maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded.Abuse of phentermine may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction. In some cases, patients have increased the dose of phentermine several times that recommended. Abrupt withdrawal of phentermine after prolonged high doses may result in extreme fatigue or mental depression; sleep EEG changes have also been noted. Signs and symptoms of chronic use of anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses, marked insomnia, irritability, hyperactivity, and personality changes. Psychosis, which can often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia, is the most severe manifestation of chronic intoxication.Primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) or cardiac valvulopathy have been reported to occur in some patients receiving a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine. The possibility of an association between PPH or valve abnormalities and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out. The initial symptom of PPH is usually dyspnea. Other initial symptoms include: angina pectoris, syncope, or peripheral edema. Patients should be advised to report immediately any deterioration in exercise tolerance. Treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop new, unexplained symptoms of dyspnea, angina pectoris, syncope, or peripheral edema.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dizziness, dysphoria, euphoria, headache, insomnia, psychosis, restlessness, tremor
    General Information
    Central nervous system adverse reactions that have been reported in patients receiving phentermine include dizziness, dysphoria, euphoria, headache, insomnia, overstimulation, restlessness, and tremor. Psychosis at recommended doses may occur rarely in some patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angina, hypertension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Phentermine may increase blood pressure and heart rate. Cardiovascular adverse effects that have been reported include hypertension, ischemic events (e.g., angina), palpitations, and sinus tachycardia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, nausea, xerostomia
    General Information
    Reported adverse gastrointestinal effects of phentermine include constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, nausea, and xerostomia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, libido increase
    General Information
    Impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido increase, and libido decrease have been reported in patients receiving phentermine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    urticaria
    General Information
    Allergic reactions such as urticaria have been reported in patients receiving phentermine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    tolerance
    General Information
    Tolerance to the anorexiant effects of phentermine usually develops within a few weeks of starting therapy. The mechanism of tolerance appears to be pharmacodynamic in nature; higher doses of phentermine are required to produce the same response. When tolerance develops to the anorexiant effects, it is generally recommended that phentermine be discontinued rather than the dose increased. The maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal
    General Information
    Phentermine has not been systematically studied for its potential to produce dependence in obese patients treated with usual recommended dose ranges. Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to the amphetamines, and these stimulant drugs have been extensively abused and the possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including this drug product as part of a weight reduction program. Abuse of amphetamines and related drugs (e.g., phentermine) may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction. There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage of these drugs to many times than recommended. Physical dependence (physiological dependence) is a state that develops as a result of physiological adaptation in response to repeated drug use. Physical dependence manifests by drug-class-specific withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation or a significant dose reduction of a drug. Limited data are available for phentermine. Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration results in extreme fatigue and mental depression; changes are also noted on a sleep electroencephalogram. Thus, in situations where rapid withdrawal is required, appropriate medical monitoring is recommended. Evidence-based data from the literature are relatively limited, and some experts suggest that long-term phentermine pharmacotherapy for obesity does not induce abuse or psychological dependence (addiction), drug craving, and that abrupt treatment cessation within the normal prescription dose range does not induce amphetamine-like withdrawal. More data are needed to confirm the dependence potential of phentermine-containing obesity products.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dyspnea, peripheral edema, pulmonary hypertension, syncope
    General Information
    Primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH), a rare, frequently fatal disease of the lungs, has been reported to occur in people receiving a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine. The possibility of an association between PPH and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out; there have been rare cases of PPH in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone. The initial symptom of PPH is usually dyspnea. Other initial symptoms may include angina pectoris, syncope or lower extremity edema. Patients should be advised to report immediately any deterioration in exercise tolerance. Treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop new, unexplained symptoms of dyspnea, angina pectoris, syncope or lower extremity peripheral edema, and patients should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cardiac valvulopathy
    General Information
    Serious regurgitant cardiac valvulopathy, primarily affecting the mitral, aortic and/or tricuspid valves, has been reported in otherwise healthy persons who had taken a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine for weight loss. The possible role of phentermine in the etiology of these valvulopathies has not been established and their course in individuals after the drugs are stopped is not known. The possibility of an association between valvular heart disease and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out; there have been rare cases of valvular heart disease in people who reportedly have taken phentermine alone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac valvulopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Phentermine is an oral, centrally-acting stimulant and sympathomimetic amine. Phentermine is used as an adjunct to lifestyle modifications for the short-term treatment (i.e., a few weeks) of exogenous obesity in adults and adolescents 17 years and older with a BMI 30 kg/m2 or more or with a BMI of 27 kg/m2 or more in the presence of at least 1 other weight-related risk factor (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes mellitus, or dyslipidemia). The pharmacologic effects of phentermine are similar to amphetamines. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinology (AACE) guidelines emphasize that obesity and adiposity-based chronic disease often require long-term management and care. Phentermine is indicated only for short-term use, but has been used off-label for longer durations. However, its use for chronic obesity management is limited until ongoing studies are completed that assess long-term cardiovascular outcomes. A combination of phentermine and topiramate (i.e., Qysmia) is approved for chronic weight management and is considered an option for long-term treatment by the AACE guidelines, with pharmacotherapy selections based on factors such as the specific characteristics of each weight loss medication, the presence of weight-related complications, and the medical history of the patient. Similar to amphetamines, phentermine can induce or exacerbate psychiatric symptoms (e.g., mania or psychosis), and is contraindicated in patients with a history of substance abuse due to abuse and addiction potential. Cases of pulmonary hypertension (PPH) and valvular heart disease have primarily been reported during concurrent use of phentermine with either fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine; however, an association with phentermine alone cannot be ruled out.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Limited data are available in reference texts regarding the mechanism of action of this drug. Phentermine is an analog of methamphetamine. Similar to the amphetamines, phentermine increases the release of norepinephrine and dopamine from nerve terminals and inhibits their reuptake. Thus, phentermine is classified as an indirect sympathomimetic. Other effects include a weak ability to dose-dependently raise serotonin levels, although the effect on serotonin occurs is less potent than that of methamphetamine itself. Appetite suppression is believed to occur through direct stimulation of the satiety center in the hypothalamic and limbic region. Other clinical effects include CNS stimulation and a potential to elevate blood pressure. Tolerance to the anorexiant effects of phentermine usually develops within a few weeks of starting therapy. The mechanism of tolerance appears to be pharmacodynamic in nature; higher doses of phentermine are required to produce the same response. When tolerance develops to the anorexiant effects, it is generally recommended that phentermine be discontinued rather than the dose increased.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, phentermine reaches peak systemic concentrations after 3 to 4.4 hours. The drug may be given with or without food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Based on the reported excretion of phentermine in urine, exposure increases can be expected in patients with renal impairment. Systemic exposure of phentermine may increase up to 91%, 45%, and 22% in patients with severe, moderate, and mild renal impairment, respectively. The maximum dosage should be reduced in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2). Avoid use in patients with an eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis.
  Text
  Phentermine is administered orally. Limited data exist describing the pharmacokinetics of phentermine. Phentermine is primarily excreted by the kidneys. Cumulative urinary excretion of phentermine under uncontrolled urinary pH conditions was 62% to 85%. The elimination half-life ranges 19 to 24 hours and excretion is influenced by urinary pH. Because the pKa of phentermine is 9.84, the elimination half-life decreases to about 7 to 8 hours under acidic urinary conditions.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Phentermine hydrochloride oral capsules or tablets (e.g., Adipex-P or similar products, ranging from 15 to 37.5 mg per dosage form):
The usual dose is administered daily before breakfast or 1 to 2 hours after breakfast.
Tablets may contain a score to allow daily dose to be divided in half and administered twice daily before meals or 1 to 2 hours after meals.
May be administered with or without food.
Avoid late evening administration because of the possibility of insomnia.
 
Phentermine hydrochloride oral tablets (e.g., Lomaira 8 mg tablet or equivalent products):
The usual dose is administered three times per day, 30 minutes before meals.
The tablets are scored for administration of one-half of the usual dosage for patients not requiring the full dose.
Avoid late evening administration because of the possibility of insomnia.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    37.5 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    37.5 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    17 years: 37.5 mg/day PO.
12 to 16 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Phentermine 15 mg or more tablets or capsules:
eGFR more than 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2: No dosage adjustment needed.
eGFR 15 to 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Do not exceed 15 mg/day PO.
eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Avoid use.
 
Phentermine 8 mg tablets:
Use with caution. Based on the reported excretion of phentermine in urine, exposure increases can be expected in patients with renal impairment.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Avoid use of phentermine 15 mg or more formulations in patients with end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis. There are no recommendations for phentermine 8 mg formulations in patients receiving dialysis.
