=== Atacicept — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5682)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Atacicept is a B-lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS)-specific inhibitor and a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL) blocker indicated for primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) at risk for disease progression to reduce proteinuria.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 150 mg subcutaneously once weekly.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. infection Atacicept suppresses the immune system by reducing antibody production and may increase the risk of infection. Individuals with chronic or recurring infections may have an...

ATACICEPT

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Trutakna

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of primary immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy at risk for disease progression to reduce proteinuria

Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


150 mg subcutaneously once weekly.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

infection


Atacicept suppresses the immune system by reducing antibody production and may increase the risk of infection. Individuals with chronic or recurring infections may have an increased risk of developing a serious infection. Prior to initiating atacicept, assess individuals for active infections. Delay administration of atacicept in individuals with an active infection until the infection resolves or is adequately treated. Monitor individuals for signs and symptoms of infection during atacicept treatment. If a serious infection develops, consider interrupting atacicept treatment until the infection is controlled. Concomitant use of atacicept with medications that affect the immune system (e.g., systemic corticosteroids) may increase the risk of infection. The concomitant use of atacicept with other immune-modulating therapies has not been evaluated. Atacicept may interfere with immune responses to vaccines and increase the risk of infection from live vaccines. Complete all age-appropriate immunizations according to current immunization guidelines prior to initiating atacicept.


pregnancy


Available data on the use of atacicept during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. No treatment-related malformations were observed in mice and rabbits at atacicept exposures approximately 12 and 4 times, respectively, the clinical exposure at the recommended human dose, based on area under the concentration curve (AUC). Immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy is associated with adverse maternal outcomes (e.g., increased rates of cesarean section, pregnancy-induced hypertension, pre-eclampsia and pre-term delivery), and adverse fetal/neonatal outcomes (e.g., stillbirth and low birth weight). Atacicept may cause immunosuppression in the in utero-exposed infant based on the mechanism of action. Consider the potential clinical impact of atacicept exposure in infants exposed in utero. Report exposures of atacicept during pregnancy by contacting 1-833-633-8372.


breast-feeding


Use atacicept with caution during breast-feeding. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for atacicept and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from atacicept or from the underlying maternal condition. There are no data on the presence of atacicept in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production/excretion.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data on the use of atacicept during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. No treatment-related malformations were observed in mice and rabbits at atacicept exposures approximately 12 and 4 times, respectively, the clinical exposure at the recommended human dose, based on area under the concentration curve (AUC). Immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy is associated with adverse maternal outcomes (e.g., increased rates of cesarean section, pregnancy-induced hypertension, pre-eclampsia and pre-term delivery), and adverse fetal/neonatal outcomes (e.g., stillbirth and low birth weight). Atacicept may cause immunosuppression in the in utero-exposed infant based on the mechanism of action. Consider the potential clinical impact of atacicept exposure in infants exposed in utero. Report exposures of atacicept during pregnancy by contacting 1-833-633-8372.


Interactions

Anthrax Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV : (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid; Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed, DT, Td: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria/Tetanus Toxoids; Pertussis Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hepatitis A Vaccine, Inactivated: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hepatitis A Vaccine, Inactivated; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Human Papillomavirus 9-Valent Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Influenza Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence. (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Japanese Encephalitis Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Meningococcal Group B (MenB-4C) Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Group B (MenB-FHbp) Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Groups A, B, C, W, and Y Vaccine (5 valent): (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Groups A, C, W, and Y Vaccine (4 valent): (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Non-Live Vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Rabies Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Respiratory Syncytial Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Tick-Borne Encephalitis Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.


Adverse Reaction
infection


Infection was reported in 32% of atacicept-treated subjects compared to 28% of subjects receiving placebo in clinical trials. The most common infection was upper respiratory tract infection, which was reported in 12% of atacicept-treated subjects compared to 9% of subjects receiving placebo. Monitor individuals for signs and symptoms of infection during atacicept treatment. If a serious infection develops, consider interrupting atacicept treatment until the infection is controlled. Most adverse reactions reported with atacicept were mild or moderate in severity and resolved without treatment interruption or discontinuation.


erythema, injection site reaction


Local administration reactions were reported in 30% of atacicept-treated subjects compared to 5% of subjects receiving placebo in clinical trials. The most common local administration reactions were injection site reaction and injection site erythema, reported in 19% and 6% of atacicept-treated subjects, respectively, compared to 2% and 1% of subjects receiving placebo. Most adverse reactions reported with atacicept were mild or moderate in severity and resolved without treatment interruption or discontinuation.


antibody formation


In a pooled analysis of phase 2 and 3 clinical data through Week 36 in individuals with primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN), antibody formation was reported in 43.2% (60 of 139) subjects receiving atacicept once weekly. There were no clinically significant effects of anti-drug antibodies (ADAs) on the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, safety, or effectiveness of atacicept during the 36-week treatment period. The observed incidence of ADAs is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. Differences in assay methods preclude meaningful comparisons of the incidence of ADAs in these studies with the incidence of ADAs in other studies, including those of atacicept.


Description

Atacicept is a B-lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS)-specific inhibitor and a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL) blocker indicated for primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) at risk for disease progression to reduce proteinuria. Atacicept is approved for this indication under accelerated approval based on reduction of proteinuria. It has not been established whether atacicept slows kidney function decline over the long-term in individuals with IgAN. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory clinical trial. Atacicept suppresses the immune system and may increase the risk of infections. Additionally, atacicept may also interfere with immune responses to vaccines and increase the risk of infection from vaccines. Live vaccines are not recommended within 30 days prior to initiation of atacicept or during treatment as safety has not been established. Atacicept was FDA-approved in July 2026.

Mechanism Of Action

Atacicept is a recombinant fusion glycoprotein consisting of the extracellular ligand-binding portion of the human transmembrane activator, calcium-modulator, and cyclophilin ligand interactor (TACI) receptor and the Fc portion of human immunoglobulin G1 (TACI Fc), which has been modified to reduce Fc receptor-mediated effector functions. Atacicept binds B-cell activating factor (BAFF), also known as BLyS, and a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL) with dissociation constants (Kd) of 106 pM and 33 pM, respectively, thereby reducing BAFF- and APRIL-mediated signaling. In individuals with immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN), inhibition of BAFF- and APRIL-mediated signaling decreases production of serum galactose-deficient immunoglobulin A1 (Gd-IgA1), a pathogenic factor implicated in IgAN.
 
Pharmacodynamics
Once-weekly administration of atacicept in individuals with IgAN produced reductions in serum Gd-IgA1, immunoglobulin A (IgA), immunoglobulin G (IgG), and immunoglobulin M (IgM) concentrations within 4 weeks that were sustained through Week 36. By Week 36, mean serum concentrations were reduced from baseline by 68% for Gd-IgA1, 64% for IgA, 36% for IgG, and 75% for IgM.

Pharmacokinetics

Atacicept is administered subcutaneously. The central and peripheral Vd of atacicept in individuals with immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) are 44 L and 61 L, respectively. No drug metabolism studies have been conducted with atacicept. As a therapeutic protein, atacicept is expected to be catabolized into small peptides and amino acids by general catabolic degradation processes in multiple tissues. The estimated clearance of atacicept is 3.2 L/day, and the elimination half-life is approximately 40 days in individuals with IgAN.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Subcutaneous Route

After subcutaneous administration of atacicept 150 mg once weekly in individuals with immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN), atacicept pharmacokinetics increased proportionally over a dose range of 75 to 150 mg. After the first subcutaneous atacicept dose, maximum atacicept concentrations were reached approximately 36 hours after administration. Steady-state was achieved after approximately 24 weeks.

Renal Impairment

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of atacicept were observed based on mild to severe renal impairment (eGFR 22 to 89 mL/minute).

Geriatric

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of atacicept were observed based on age (18 to 74 years), including adults 65 and older compared to younger adults.

Gender Differences

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of atacicept were observed based on sex.

Ethnic Differences

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of atacicept were observed based on race.

Other

Body Weight
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of atacicept were observed based on weight (38.4 to 138 kg).

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Atacicept is a clear to slightly opalescent, brownish-yellow solution.


Subcutaneous Administration


Remove the atacicept autoinjector from the refrigerator and allow the autoinjector to reach room temperature 15 to 30 minutes prior to administration.
Do not use an external heat source to heat the autoinjector as heat may damage the product.
Allowing the atacicept autoinjector to warm may make the injection more comfortable.
Inspect the autoinjector for any damage and check the expiration date. Check the viewing window.
Do not use the autoinjector if there is any damage to the cap or to the autoinjector body, the expiration date is passed, or if the liquid medication in the viewing window is cloudy or has particles. It is normal to see air bubbles; do not shake to try to remove air bubbles from the autoinjector.
A gray stopper tip should be visible on an end of the viewing window. If the viewing window is filled with blue, the autoinjector will not work. Use a new autoinjector if the viewing window is blue.
Choose an injection site on the abdomen, at least 2 inches away from the navel, or front of the thigh.
Administer each injection at a different location than the previous injection. Rotating injection sites may help prevent injection site irritation or scarring.
Do not inject into skin that is irritated, bruised, red, sore, hard, scarred, or with moles, tattoos, cuts, or scratches.
Clean the injection site with an alcohol wipe and let the skin air dry. Do not touch, fan, or blow on the injection site after it has been cleaned.
Remove the cap straight off the autoinjector. Do not twist off the cap or push the blue needle shield against the hand or finger as this may activate the autoinjector and cause a needle stick injury.
Do not put the cap back onto the autoinjector as it may damage the needle.
Place the blue needle shield of the autoinjector against the skin at a 90-degree angle so that the viewing window is clearly visible.
Push down firmly against the skin. Continue holding the autoinjector down while counting slowly to 15. Clicks may be heard during the injection; continue holding the autoinjector against the skin.
Verify that the viewing window is filled with blue before lifting the autoinjector from the skin. If the viewing window is not completely filled with blue, a full dose may not have been administered.
To complete th injection, lift the autoinjector straight up off the skin. The blue needle shield will slide down and lock over the needle.
Do not tilt the autoinjector when removing it from the skin and do not touch the blue needle shield.
After injecting atacicept, check the injection site for liquid medication. The presence of more than a few drops of medication on the injection site may indicate incomplete administration of the dose.
Do not massage or rub the injection site.
Dispose of the autoinjector in a sharps container.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, administer the missed dose as soon as possible and then resume once weekly dosing thereafter, 1 week from administration of the missed dose.
Storage: Keep the prefilled autoinjector in the original container to protect from light. If needed, atacicept may be stored at room temperature up to 25 degrees C (77 degrees F), for a single period of 3 days (72 hours). Once atacicept has been stored at room temperature, do not place back in the refrigerator. Discard the autoinjector if not used within this 72-hour period. Do not freeze. Do not expose to heat.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

150 mg subcutaneously once weekly.

Geriatric

150 mg subcutaneously once weekly.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Trutakna 150mg/mL Prefilled Autoinjector Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier