=== Abacavir/lamiVUDine/Zidovudine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2493)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Abacavir 600 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day; zidovudine 600 mg/day.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): chills, fatigue, fever, malaise, vasculitis, weakness, anemia, aplastic anemia, bone marrow suppression, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, red cell aplasia, splenomegaly, thrombocytopenia, arthralgia, elevated creatine kinase, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, lactic acidosis, steatosis, alopecia, erythema multiforme, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2 NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

ABACAVIR/LAMIVUDINE/ZIDOVUDINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Trizivir

Indication Specific Dosing

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
General Dosing Information
NOTE: HIV guidelines recommend screening for HLA-B*5701 before initiating an abacavir-containing regimen to reduce the risk of hypersensitivity reaction. HLA-B*5701-positive patients should not be prescribed abacavir.
NOTE: HIV guidelines recommend consideration be given to avoiding use of abacavir-containing regimens in patients at high risk for cardiovascular adverse events. Although a definitive correlation has not been established, recent (within 6 months) or current use of abacavir has been associated with an increased risk of myocardial infarction.


For the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection

Oral dosage
Adults


1 tablet (abacavir 300 mg; lamivudine 150 mg; zidovudine 300 mg) PO twice daily.


Children and Adolescents weighing 40 kg or more


1 tablet (abacavir 300 mg; lamivudine 150 mg; zidovudine 300 mg) PO twice daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

HLA-B*5701-positive, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis


Abacavir has been associated with serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis (some cases have been fatal); to reduce the risk, perform HLA-B*5701 testing on all patients before initiating treatment. Abacavir is contraindicated in any HLA-B*5701-positive patient; clearly record the positive status as an abacavir allergy in the patients' medical record. According to the manufacturer, the estimated incidence of hypersensitivity to abacavir was 8% when HLA-B*5701 screening was not performed; the incidence was 1% when HLA-B*5701-positive patients were excluded. Racial background may help identify those at higher risk for carrying the gene, as in the United States approximately 8% of Caucasian patients, 2.5% of Black patients, and 1% of Asian patients are carriers. Regardless of HLA-B*5701 status, immediately discontinue treatment in patients developing or with suspected signs or symptoms of abacavir hypersensitivity, including those presenting with 2 or more of the following: fever, rash, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain), constitutional symptoms (generalized malaise, fatigue, achiness), or respiratory symptoms (dyspnea, cough, pharyngitis). Other potential signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity include: lethargy, headache, myolysis, edema, localized infiltrates on chest x-ray, arthralgia, paresthesia, lymphadenopathy, conjunctivitis, oral ulceration, elevated liver function tests, creatine phosphokinase, creatinine, and lymphopenia. Permanently discontinue abacavir if the clinical presentation of an acute illness cannot be clearly differentiated from a hypersensitivity reaction. NEVER reinitiate an abacavir containing product in a patient who experiences a hypersensitivity reaction as more severe symptoms will recur within hours of administration and may include life-threatening hypotension and death. Severe or fatal hypersensitivity reactions may also occur within hours after abacavir reintroduction in patients without an identified history of hypersensitivity, but who abruptly discontinued abacavir for reasons unrelated to symptoms of hypersensitivity (e.g., interruption in drug supply or discontinuation while treating other medical conditions). In some cases, symptoms consistent with hypersensitivity may have been present before abacavir was discontinued, but may have been attributed to other medical conditions (e.g., acute onset respiratory diseases, gastroenteritis, or reactions to other medications). In a minority of cases, hypersensitivity reactions occurred days to weeks after abacavir reintroduction. If abacavir has been discontinued for reasons other than symptoms of hypersensitivity and if reinitiation is being considered, re-evaluate the reason for discontinuation and ensure that the patient did not have any suspected symptoms of hypersensitivity. If hypersensitivity symptoms are suspected upon review or if hypersensitivity cannot be ruled out, do not reinitiate abacavir. If symptoms consistent with hypersensitivity are not identified and the patient is HLA-B*5701-negative, undertake reintroduction with caution. If HLA-B*5701 status is unknown, screening should occur prior to restarting therapy. Report all hypersensitivity reactions to the FDA MedWatch program (800-FDA-1088).


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine is contraindicated for use in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, including those with hepatic failure. A dose reduction of the abacavir component is required for patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A). However, because this is a fixed dose combination product, the abacavir dose cannot be adjusted; therefore, the use of abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine should be avoided in patients with mild hepatic impairment. The zidovudine component is eliminated by hepatic metabolism, and increased zidovudine concentrations resulting from reduced metabolism may increase the risk of hematologic toxicities. Frequent monitoring for these toxicities is advised.


hepatitis B infection


Abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine is not recommended for the treatment of hepatitis B infection in patients with concurrent HIV infection, unless given with an additional anti-hepatitis B virus therapy (i.e., tenofovir alafenamide, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, or entecavir); otherwise, consider an alternative antiretroviral regimen. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) variants associated with lamivudine resistance have been reported in patients with HIV who have received lamivudine-containing antiretroviral regimens in the presence of concurrent infection with HBV. Perform hepatitis A virus (HAV) and HBV screening in any patient who presents with HIV infection to assure appropriate treatment. If the HBV screening is positive, additional testing for hepatitis D virus (HDV) is recommended. Patients with HIV and HBV/HDV coinfection should be referred to an expert in the management of viral hepatitis. Patients with hepatitis B and HIV coinfection should be started on a fully suppressive antiretroviral (ARV) regimen with activity against both viruses (regardless of CD4 counts and HBV DNA concentrations). HIV treatment guidelines recommend these patients receive an ARV regimen that contains a dual NRTI backbone of tenofovir alafenamide or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with either emtricitabine or lamivudine. Both tenofovir products are active against HBV and can be used as HBV monotherapy. Emtricitabine and lamivudine are also active against HBV; however, they are not recommended for use as monotherapy due to the potential for HBV resistance. Therefore, if tenofovir cannot be used, entecavir should be given in combination with a fully suppressive ARV regimen (NOTE: entecavir should not be considered part of the ARV regimen). Avoid HBV treatment regimens that include adefovir or peginterferon alfa, as these regimens are associated with a higher incidence of toxicities and increased rates of HBV treatment failure. In rare cases, peginterferon alfa can remain a treatment option after consultation with an expert. Most patients with coinfection should continue treatment indefinitely with the goal of maximal HIV suppression and prevention of HBV relapse. If treatment must be discontinued, monitor transaminase concentrations every 6 weeks for the first 3 months, and every 3 to 6 months thereafter. Instruct patients to avoid consuming alcohol and offer vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.


General Information

During baseline evaluation of people with HIV, discuss risk reduction measures and the need for status disclosure to sexual or needle-sharing partners, especially with untreated patients who are still at high risk of HIV transmission. Include the importance of adherence to therapy to achieve and maintain a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL. Maintaining a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL, including any measurable value below this threshold, with antiretroviral therapy prevents sexual transmission of HIV to their partners. Patients may recognize this concept as Undetectable = Untransmittable or U=U. Instruct patients to achieve sustained viral suppression (i.e., 2 recorded measurements of plasma viral loads that are below the limits of detection and taken at least 3 months apart) before attempting to conceive a child in order to maximize their health, prevent HIV sexual transmission, and minimize the risk of HIV transmission to the infant once conception occurs. For partners with different HIV status when the person with HIV is on antiretroviral therapy and has achieved sustained viral suppression, sexual intercourse without a condom allows conception without sexual HIV transmission to the person without HIV; expert consultation is recommended. If the partner with HIV has not been able to achieve viral suppression, has an unknown viral suppression status, or has the potential for inconsistent adherence during the periconception period, the use of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) by the partner without HIV is an option to reduce the risk of sexual HIV acquisition.
 
Testing for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection resistance is recommended in all antiretroviral treatment-naive patients at the time of HIV diagnosis, regardless of whether treatment will be initiated. Additionally, perform resistance testing prior to initiating or changing any HIV treatment regimen. Transmission of drug-resistant HIV strains has been both well documented and associated with suboptimal virologic response to initial antiretroviral therapy. The prevalence of transmitted drug resistance (TDR) in high-income countries ranges from 9% to 14% and varies by country. In most TDR surveys, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) resistance and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) resistance are the most common mutation class types detected, followed by protease inhibitor (PI) and integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) resistance mutations, respectively. Resistance testing at baseline can help optimize treatment and, thus, virologic response. In the absence of therapy, resistant viruses may decline over time to less than the detection limit of standard resistance tests, but may still increase the risk of treatment failure when therapy is eventually initiated. Thus, if therapy is deferred, resistance testing should still be performed during acute HIV infection with the genotypic resistance test result kept in the patient's medical record until it becomes clinically useful. Additionally, because of the possibility of acquisition of another drug-resistant virus before treatment initiation, repeat resistance testing at the time therapy is initiated would be prudent.
 
HIV treatment guidelines recommend all patients presenting with HIV infection undergo routine screening for hepatitis C virus (HCV). For HCV seronegative individuals who are at continued high risk of acquiring hepatitis C, specifically men who have sex with men (MSM) or persons who inject drugs, additional HCV screening is recommended annually or as indicated by clinical presentation (e.g., unexplained ALT elevation), risk activities, or exposure. Similarly, the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines and the CDC preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP) guidelines recommend HCV serologic testing at baseline and every 12 months for MSM, transgender women, and persons who inject drugs. Use an FDA-approved immunoassay licensed for detection of HCV antibodies (anti-HCV); in settings where acute HCV infection is suspected or in persons with known prior infection that cleared spontaneously or after treatment, use of nucleic acid testing for HCV RNA is recommended. If hepatitis C and HIV coinfection is identified, consider treating both viral infections concurrently. It is recommended to use a fully suppressive antiretroviral therapy and an HCV regimen in all patients with coinfection, regardless of CD4 count, as lower CD4 counts do not appear to compromise the efficacy of HCV treatment. In most patients, a simplified pangenotypic HCV regimen (i.e., glecaprevir; pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir; velpatasvir) may be an appropriate choice; however, these regimens are NOT recommended for use in persons with HCV and HIV coinfection who: are treatment-experienced with HCV relapse (reinfection after successful therapy is not an exclusion); have decompensated cirrhosis; on a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate containing regimen with eGFR less than 60 mL/minute; on efavirenz, etravirine, nevirapine, or boosted protease inhibitor; have untreated chronic hepatitis B; are pregnant. Patients with HCV and HIV coinfection who meet these exclusion criteria should be treated for HCV following standard approaches as described in the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines. Treatment of HCV infection in children younger than 3 years is not usually recommended; however, treatment should be considered for all children 3 years and older with HCV and HIV coinfection who have no contraindications to treatment. Instruct patients with coinfection to avoid consuming alcohol, limit ingestion of potentially hepatotoxic medications, avoid iron supplementation in the absence of documented iron deficiency, and receive vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.
 
Patients with HIV who must undergo a solid organ transplant or allogeneic stem cell transplant should be managed by a multidisciplinary team before, during, and after the transplant to ensure comprehensive care. Prior to the transplant, ensure viral suppression is obtained, and the patient is up-to-date on their vaccinations. Review the patient's antiretroviral history, prior drug resistance results, adherence history, and the potential for drug interactions. Bictegravir- or dolutegravir-based regimens are preferred in most patients needing a transplant. Consider using tenofovir alafenamide over tenofovir disoproxil fumarate due to the lower risk of affecting renal function and bone mineral density. In general, avoid use of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, cobicistat, protease inhibitors) or CYP3A4 inducing non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (efavirenz, nevirapine, etravirine). If a change in the antiretroviral regimen is necessary, the switch should be completed several weeks before the transplant whenever possible. Renal and hepatic function may fluctuate immediately post-transplant; thus, close monitoring is recommended to ensure appropriate dosing and to avoid potential drug toxicities. Additionally, therapeutic drug monitoring of the immunosuppressive medications should be performed to guide dose adjustments. Make every effort to avoid post-transplant interruption of antiretroviral therapy. If an interruption is necessary, stop all components of the regimen simultaneously and restart treatment as soon as possible.

hepatitis B exacerbation


Severe acute hepatitis B exacerbation has been reported in patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HIV coinfection who have discontinued use of lamivudine, and may occur with discontinuation of abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine. Close monitoring, both clinical and laboratory, is recommended for several months after stopping treatment with abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine. If appropriate, resumption of anti-hepatitis B treatment may be required.


renal failure, renal impairment


Abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine is not recommended for use in patients with renal impairment (CrCl less than 50 mL/minute), including renal failure. Because this is a fixed-dose combination, the dosage of the individual components cannot be adjusted for impaired renal function. If a dose reduction of the lamivudine or zidovudine components is required for a person with renal impairment, then the individual component should be used.


bone marrow suppression, hematologic toxicity


Zidovudine-associated hematologic toxicity appears to be related to pretreatment bone marrow reserve and to dose and duration of therapy. Administer abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine with extreme caution to patients with bone marrow suppression, especially neutropenia or anemia (e.g., granulocyte count less than 1,000 cells/mm3 or hemoglobin less than 9.5 g/dL). Frequent blood counts are strongly recommended in patients with advanced HIV disease who are receiving treatment with abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine. Periodic blood counts are recommended for other drug recipients. An interruption of treatment may be needed if anemia or neutropenia develops.


hepatotoxicity or lactic acidosis


Hepatotoxicity or lactic acidosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, including abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine. Typically, these adverse reactions present with symptoms such as enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) and fatty liver (steatosis), even in the absence of significant elevations in liver transaminases. A majority of these cases have occurred in females. Female sex and obesity may be risk factors for the development of lactic acidosis and severe hepatotoxicity. Suspend abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine treatment in patients who develop clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or hepatotoxicity.


myopathy


Monitor drug recipients for signs of myopathy and myositis as they have been reported, along with pathological changes similar to that produced by HIV, with prolonged use of zidovudine.


coronary artery disease


When prescribing abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine, consider the patient's underlying risk of coronary artery disease and take action to minimize all modifiable risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and smoking). HIV guidelines recommend consideration be given to avoiding the use of abacavir-containing regimens in patients with known high cardiovascular risk. Conflicting data have been published regarding the potential for myocardial infarction (MI) in patients receiving treatment with an abacavir-containing regimen. In several prospective, observational, epidemiological studies the use of abacavir was associated with an increased risk of MI. Patients in these studies who started abacavir for the first time had worse initial cardiovascular risk profiles than observed with the other nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) agents; therefore, it can not be ruled out that some of these results could be the result of channeling bias. The authors of these studies speculate that the underlying mechanism for increased risk of cardiovascular disease may be due to an increased propensity for subclinical atherosclerosis to manifest itself clinically as a consequence of the pro-inflammatory potential of abacavir; however, a biological mechanism to explain the potential increase in risk has not been definitely established. In contrast to these observational trials, a sponsor-conducted, pooled analysis of clinical trials showed no excess risk of MI in abacavir-treated subjects as compared with control subjects. Further, a meta-analysis of 26 randomized clinical trials conducted by the FDA failed to reveal an association between treatment with abacavir-containing regimens and development of MI (OR = 1.02; 95% CI 0.56 to 1.84).


pregnancy


Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. Guidelines recommend against the use of the 3-drug regimen abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine in pregnant patients. Patients who become pregnant while taking abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine should be switched to an alternative regimen. Available data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry, which includes first trimester exposures to abacavir (1,532 exposures), lamivudine (5,833 exposures), and zidovudine (4,262 exposures), have shown no difference in the risk of overall major birth defects when compared to the 2.7% background rate among pregnant women in the US. When exposure occurred in the first trimester, prevalence of defects was 3.1% (95% CI: 2.3 to 4.1) for abacavir, 3% (95% CI: 2.6 to 3.5) for lamivudine, and 3.2% (95% CI: 2.7 to 3.8) for zidovudine. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery and optimal treatment for newborns. Patients whose HIV RNA levels are above the threshold for resistance testing (usually greater than 500 copies/mL but may be possible for levels greater than 200 copies/mL in some laboratories) should undergo antiretroviral resistance testing (genotypic testing, and if indicated, phenotypic testing). Resistance testing should be conducted before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy in patients who become pregnant while receiving treatment, or modifying therapy in patients who have suboptimal virologic response to treatment that was started during pregnancy. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.


breast-feeding


Provide evidence-based, patient-centered counseling to support shared decision-making regarding infant feeding. Inform individuals that use of replacement feeding (i.e., formula or banked pasteurized donor human milk) eliminates the risk of HIV transmission. It is recommended to use replacement feeding for infants and children of lactating people with HIV who are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) or do not have suppressed viral load during pregnancy and/or at delivery. For those on ART who have achieved and maintained viral suppression during pregnancy (at minimum throughout the third trimester) and postpartum, the transmission risk from breast-feeding is less than 1%, but not zero. Virologically suppressed patients who choose to breast-feed should be supported in this decision. If breast-feeding is chosen, provide counseling about the importance of adherence to therapy and recommend that the infant be exclusively breast-fed for up to 6 months of age, as exclusive breast-feeding has been associated with a lower rate of HIV transmission as compared to mixed feeding (i.e., breast milk and formula). If a viral load is subsequently detected in a breast-feeding person, it is recommended to discontinue or temporarily stop breast-feeding while the viral load is rechecked, causes of viremia are assessed, adherence counseling is reinforced, and the breast-fed infant undergoes HIV nucleic acid testing (NAT). If the repeated viral load is undetectable, a shared decision should be made regarding resumption of breast-feeding. If the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is 200 copies/mL or more, most experts recommend permanent discontinuation of breast-feeding and initiation of a 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. ART(a 1- or 3-drug regimen) for the infant may also be considered if the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is quantifiable but less than 200 copies/mL; consult an expert for guidance. For breast-feeding individuals who receive a new HIV diagnosis while breast-feeding (acute HIV), it is recommended to immediately transition from breast-feeding to replacement feeding, perform an infant HIV NAT, and initiate 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. Promptly identify and treat mastitis, thrush, and cracked or bleeding nipples, as these conditions may increase the risk of HIV transmission through breast-feeding. Breast-fed infants should undergo immediate diagnostic and virologic HIV testing. Testing should continue throughout breast-feeding and up to 6 months after cessation of breast-feeding. For expert consultation, care teams may contact the Perinatal HIV Hotline (888-448-8765). Lamivudine was present in human milk during a study involving 20 breast-feeding people with HIV who were administered either 300 mg of lamivudine twice daily as a single agent (n = 10) or lamivudine 150 mg twice daily in combination with zidovudine (n = 10). The mean milk concentrations of lamivudine in the respective groups were similar at 1.22 micrograms/mL (range less than 0.5 to 6.09 micrograms/mL) and 0.9 micrograms/mL (range less than 0.5 to 8.2 micrograms/mL). Zidovudine, administered as 300 mg PO twice daily, was present in human milk during a study involving 18 breast-feeding people with HIV. Data from this study revealed higher median zidovudine concentrations in the milk (207 ng/mL) than in the serum of the breast-feeding person (58 ng/mL). Other antiretroviral medications whose passage into human milk have been evaluated include nevirapine and nelfinavir.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. Guidelines recommend against the use of the 3-drug regimen abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine in pregnant patients. Patients who become pregnant while taking abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine should be switched to an alternative regimen. Available data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry, which includes first trimester exposures to abacavir (1,532 exposures), lamivudine (5,833 exposures), and zidovudine (4,262 exposures), have shown no difference in the risk of overall major birth defects when compared to the 2.7% background rate among pregnant women in the US. When exposure occurred in the first trimester, prevalence of defects was 3.1% (95% CI: 2.3 to 4.1) for abacavir, 3% (95% CI: 2.6 to 3.5) for lamivudine, and 3.2% (95% CI: 2.7 to 3.8) for zidovudine. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery and optimal treatment for newborns. Patients whose HIV RNA levels are above the threshold for resistance testing (usually greater than 500 copies/mL but may be possible for levels greater than 200 copies/mL in some laboratories) should undergo antiretroviral resistance testing (genotypic testing, and if indicated, phenotypic testing). Resistance testing should be conducted before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy in patients who become pregnant while receiving treatment, or modifying therapy in patients who have suboptimal virologic response to treatment that was started during pregnancy. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.


Interactions

Acetaminophen: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Adefovir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Administer clarithromycin and zidovudine at least 2 hours apart. Simultaneous oral administration of clarithromycin immediate-release tablets and zidovudine may result in decreased steady-state zidovudine concentrations. The impact of coadministration of clarithromycin extended-release tablets or granules and zidovudine has not been evaluated.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Moderate) The use of ABLC with zidovudine, ZDV has lead to an increase in myelotoxicity and nephrotoxicity in dogs. If these medications are used concomitantly, monitor renal and hematologic function closely.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Atidarsagene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Atovaquone: (Minor) Atovaquone appears to increase the AUC of zidovudine by inhibiting the glucuronidation of zidovudine. Inhibition of zidovudine metabolism by atovaquone could result in an increase in zidovudine-induced adverse effects.
Atovaquone; Proguanil: (Minor) Atovaquone appears to increase the AUC of zidovudine by inhibiting the glucuronidation of zidovudine. Inhibition of zidovudine metabolism by atovaquone could result in an increase in zidovudine-induced adverse effects.
azaTHIOprine: (Moderate) Azathioprine may interact with other drugs that are myelosuppressive, such as azathioprine. A significant toxicity of zidovudine, ZDV is myelosuppression and resulting neutropenia and anemia.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Betibeglogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Bortezomib: (Minor) Monitor patients for the development of peripheral neuropathy when receiving bortezomib in combination with other drugs that can cause peripheral neuropathy like lamivudine; the risk of peripheral neuropathy may be additive. (Minor) Monitor patients for the development of peripheral neuropathy when receiving bortezomib in combination with other drugs that can cause peripheral neuropathy like zidovudine; the risk of peripheral neuropathy may be additive.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Cidofovir: (Major) Concomitant use of probenecid with zidovudine may produce substantially higher serum concentrations of zidovudine. Because cidofovir must be given concomitantly with probenecid, the manufacturer of cidofovir recommends that on the days of concomitant cidofovir and probenecid therapy, zidovudine should either be discontinued temporarily or the zidovudine dosage should be reduced by 50%. Limited data suggest that probenecid may inhibit glucuronidation and/or reduce renal excretion of zidovudine.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Administer clarithromycin and zidovudine at least 2 hours apart. Simultaneous oral administration of clarithromycin immediate-release tablets and zidovudine may result in decreased steady-state zidovudine concentrations. The impact of coadministration of clarithromycin extended-release tablets or granules and zidovudine has not been evaluated.
Clofarabine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and zidovudine, ZDV may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are substrates of OAT1 and OAT3. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 and OAT3 substrates.
cycloPHOSphamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor complete blood counts if coadministration of cyclophosphamide with zidovudine is necessary as there is an increased risk of hematologic toxicity and immunosuppression.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Dapsone: (Minor) Zidovudine, ZDV should be given with caution to patients also receiving dapsone due to the risk of additive hematologic toxicity.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid concomitant administration of zidovudine, ZDV, and doxorubicin as an antagonistic relationship has been demonstrated in vitro.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid concomitant administration of zidovudine, ZDV, and doxorubicin as an antagonistic relationship has been demonstrated in vitro.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Elivaldogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Emtricitabine: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking abacavir. Abacavir is metabolized via alcohol dehydrogenase. Alcohol decreases the elimination of abacavir causing an increase in overall exposure to abacavir. In a study involving HIV-infected men, coadministration of alcohol and abacavir resulted in a 41% increase in abacavir AUC and a 26% increase in abacavir half-life. In males, abacavir had no effect on the pharmacokinetic properties of alcohol; this interaction has not been studied in females. Abacavir has no effect on the pharmacokinetic properties of alcohol.
Etuvetidigene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV), such as etuvetidigene autotemcel. Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization and continue to hold therapy until at least 7 days after etuvetidigene autotemcel infusion; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may decrease etuvetidigene autotemcel efficacy by reducing LVV activity and interfering with gene therapy manufacturing.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in zidovudine efficacy during concomitant use of zidovudine and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease zidovudine exposure. Zidovudine is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Fluconazole: (Minor) During concomitant administration with fluconazole, the clearance of zidovudine may be reduced. Although the clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, patients receiving fluconazole with zidovudine should be closely monitored for zidovudine-induced adverse effects, especially hematologic toxicity. Zidovudine dosage reduction may be considered.
Flucytosine: (Moderate) Zidovudine, ZDV should be used cautiously with other drugs that can cause bone marrow suppression, such as flucytosine, because of the increased risk of hematologic toxicity. In some cases, a reduction in the dosage of zidovudine may be warranted.
Foscarnet: (Minor) Concurrent use of foscarnet and zidovudine, ZDV may be associated with a higher incidence of anemia; clinicians should follow normal recommendations for blood count monitoring and other parameters.
Fosphenytoin: (Minor) Coadministration with zidovudine may result in either increased or decreased phenytoin concentrations.
Ganciclovir: (Major) Coadministration of ganciclovir and zidovudine may increase the hematologic toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, anemia) of zidovudine. Some patients may not tolerate concomitant therapy with these drugs at full dosage. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor hematologic parameters closely.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Beta-1a: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Beta-1b: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Gamma-1b: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferons: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Administer clarithromycin and zidovudine at least 2 hours apart. Simultaneous oral administration of clarithromycin immediate-release tablets and zidovudine may result in decreased steady-state zidovudine concentrations. The impact of coadministration of clarithromycin extended-release tablets or granules and zidovudine has not been evaluated.
Leflunomide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for zidovudine-induced side effects such as hematologic toxicity when these drugs are used together. In some patients, a dosage reduction of zidovudine may be required. Following oral administration, leflunomide is metabolized to an active metabolite, teriflunomide, which is responsible for essentially all of leflunomide's in vivo activity. Teriflunomide is an inhibitor of the renal uptake organic anion transporter OAT3. Use of teriflunomide with zidovudine, a substrate of OAT3, may increase zidovudine plasma concentrations.
Lentivirus vector therapy (selected): (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown. (Minor) Since ritonavir induces glucuronidation, there is the potential for reduction in zidovudine, ZDV plasma concentrations during concurrent therapy with ritonavir. When coadministered with ritonavir, the AUC and Cmax of zidovudine, ZDV are decreased by 12% and 27%. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Lovotibeglogene autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Mafenide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sulfonamides and zidovudine may result in additive hematological abnormalities. Use caution and monitor for hematologic toxicity during concurrent use.
Marnetegragene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Memantine: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Methadone: (Moderate) In a study of 11 adult HIV-infected subjects receiving methadone maintenance therapy (40 to 90 mg/day) and abacavir 600 mg twice daily (twice the current recommended dose), methadone clearance increased by 22% (6% to 42%). While this interaction will not require dosage adjustment in the majority of patients, a small number of patients may require increased doses of methadone. In addition, a significant decrease in abacavir Cmax (34%) and increase in Tmax (67%) were noted, but no changes in overall abacavir clearance or half-life were reported. The clinical significance regarding abacavir therapy is not known. (Moderate) Methadone increases exposure zidovudine, ZDV. Patients should be monitored for zidovudine toxicity during concurrent methadone treatment; however, the manufacturer of zidovudine states that routine dosage adjustment of zidovudine is not required during coadministration of methadone. Patients who receive both methadone and zidovudine may experience symptoms characteristic of opiate withdrawal and attribute the cause to decreased methadone levels due to zidovudine. However, it is more likely patients are actually experiencing zidovudine side effects due to increased levels since zidovudine has no effect on methadone metabolism. In one pharmacokinetic study (n=9), coadministration of methadone increased the AUC of zidovudine by about 43% (range: 16-64%). It appears methadone inhibits zidovudine glucuronidation and, to a lesser extent, decreases zidovudine renal clearance.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown. (Minor) Since ritonavir induces glucuronidation, there is the potential for reduction in zidovudine, ZDV plasma concentrations during concurrent therapy with ritonavir. When coadministered with ritonavir, the AUC and Cmax of zidovudine, ZDV are decreased by 12% and 27%. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Minor) Rifabutin may accelerate the metabolism of zidovudine. However the effectiveness of zidovudine against HIV does not appear to be altered and no dosage adjustments are required. The CDC currently considers the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, including zidovudine, compatible for concomitant use with rifamycins, including rifampin, rifabutin and rifapentine.
Orlistat: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Peginterferon beta-1a: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Phenytoin: (Minor) Coadministration with zidovudine has resulted in altered phenytoin concentrations. Reports have varied, with increased and decreased phenytoin concentrations being reported. Use combination with caution.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Probenecid: (Major) Concomitant use of probenecid with zidovudine, ZDV may produce substantially higher serum concentrations of zidovudine.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Concomitant use of probenecid with zidovudine, ZDV may produce substantially higher serum concentrations of zidovudine.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion such as procainamide may compete with lamivudine for common renal tubular transport systems, thus possibly decreasing the elimination of one of the drugs. Although theoretical, careful patient monitoring of the response to lamivudine and/or procainamide is recommended to individualize dosage. In selected individuals, procainamide serum concentration monitoring may be appropriate.
Pyrimethamine: (Major) Pyrimethamine should be used cautiously with zidovudine, ZDV because of the potential for the development of blood dyscrasias including megaloblastic anemia, agranulocytosis, or thrombocytopenia. Monitor CBCs routinely in patients receiving both drugs simultaneously; if signs of folate deficiency develop, pyrimethamine should be discontinued.
Ribavirin: (Moderate) Use abacavir with ribavirin and interferon with caution and closely monitor for hepatic decompensation and anemia. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh greater than 6). Hepatic decompensation (some fatal) has occurred in HCV/HIV coinfected patients who received both ribavirin/interferon and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) therapies. (Moderate) Use lamivudine with ribavirin and interferon with caution and closely monitor for hepatic decompensation and anemia. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh greater than 6). Hepatic decompensation (some fatal) has occurred in HCV/HIV coinfected patients who received both ribavirin/interferon and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) therapies. In addition, ribavirin has been shown in cell culture to inhibit phosphorylation of lamivudine, which could lead to decreased antiretroviral activity; however, while ribavirin inhibits the phosphorylation reactions required to activate lamivudine, no evidence of a pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction has been observed. (Moderate) Use zidovudine with ribavirin and interferon with caution and closely monitor for hepatic decompensation and anemia. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh greater than 6). Hepatic decompensation (some fatal) has occurred in HCV/HIV coinfected patients who received both ribavirin/interferon and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) therapies. In addition, ribavirin may antagonize the cell culture antiviral activity of zidovudine against HIV; however, no evidence of a pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction has been observed.
Rifabutin: (Minor) Rifabutin may accelerate the metabolism of zidovudine. However the effectiveness of zidovudine against HIV does not appear to be altered and no dosage adjustments are required. The CDC currently considers the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, including zidovudine, compatible for concomitant use with rifamycins, including rifampin, rifabutin and rifapentine.
rifAMPin: (Minor) Rifampin can accelerate the metabolism of zidovudine, causing a decrease in AUC of approximately 50%. However the effectiveness of zidovudine against HIV does not appear to be altered and no dosage adjustments are required.
Rifapentine: (Minor) Rifapentine appears to increase the glucuronidation of zidovudine, ZDV similar to other rifamycins. This may cause a decrease in zidovudine AUC. However, the effectiveness of zidovudine against HIV does not appear to be altered. The activity of zidovudine is dependent on the intracellular concentration of the triphosphate metabolite which is not correlated with plasma concentrations of the parent compound. The CDC currently considers the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), including zidovudine, compatible for concomitant use with rifamycins (including rifampin, rifabutin and rifapentine). No dosing adjustments are necessary.
Riociguat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in riociguat-related adverse effects like hypotension if concomitant use with abacavir is necessary. Consider a riociguat dose reduction in patients who may not tolerate the hypotensive effect of riociguat. Concomitant use of riociguat and abacavir may increase riociguat exposure although the magnitude of increase is unknown. Riociguat is a CYP1A1 substrate; abacavir may inhibit CYP1A1.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown. (Minor) Since ritonavir induces glucuronidation, there is the potential for reduction in zidovudine, ZDV plasma concentrations during concurrent therapy with ritonavir. When coadministered with ritonavir, the AUC and Cmax of zidovudine, ZDV are decreased by 12% and 27%. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Sorbitol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lamivudine oral solution and sorbitol if possible due to sorbitol dose-dependent reduction in lamivudine exposure. An all-tablet regimen should be used when possible to avoid a potential interaction with sorbitol. Consider more frequent monitoring of viral load when treating with lamivudine oral solution. In a drug interaction study in 16 healthy adult patients, coadministration of a single 300 mg dose of lamivudine oral solution with sorbitol 3.2 g, 10.2 g, or 13.4 g resulted in dose-dependent decreases of 20%, 39%, and 44% in the AUC24 and 28%, 52%, and 55% in the Cmax of lamivudine.
sulfADIAZINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sulfonamides and zidovudine may result in additive hematological abnormalities. Use caution and monitor for hematologic toxicity during concurrent use.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sulfonamides and zidovudine may result in additive hematological abnormalities. Use caution and monitor for hematologic toxicity during concurrent use. (Moderate) Concomitant use of trimethoprim and zidovudine may result in additive hematological abnormalities. Use caution and monitor for hematologic toxicity during concurrent use.
sulfaSALAzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sulfonamides and zidovudine may result in additive hematological abnormalities. Use caution and monitor for hematologic toxicity during concurrent use.
Sulfonamides: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sulfonamides and zidovudine may result in additive hematological abnormalities. Use caution and monitor for hematologic toxicity during concurrent use.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Major) Concomitant use of probenecid with zidovudine, ZDV may produce substantially higher serum concentrations of zidovudine.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Zidovudine, ZDV should be used cautiously with other drugs that can cause bone marrow suppression including teriflunomide because of the increased risk of hematologic toxicity. In some cases, a reduction in the dosage or discontinuation of zidovudine may be warranted. Teriflunomide, an organic anion transporter OAT3 renal updake inhibitor, may cause elevated concentrations of zidovudine, an OAT3 substrate.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of tipranavir and ritonavir with abacavir results in decreased abacavir concentrations. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, and no recommendations for abacavir dosage adjustments are available. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of tipranavir and ritonavir with zidovudine results in decreased zidovudine concentrations. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, and no recommendations for zidovudine dosage adjustments are available.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Trimethoprim: (Moderate) Concomitant use of trimethoprim and zidovudine may result in additive hematological abnormalities. Use caution and monitor for hematologic toxicity during concurrent use.
Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
valGANciclovir: (Major) Zidovudine should be used cautiously with other drugs that can cause bone marrow suppression, such as valganciclovir, because of the increased risk of hematologic toxicity. In some cases, a reduction in the dosage of zidovudine may be warranted. Occasionally, discontinuation of therapy or the addition of a hematopoietic colony stimulating factor may be necessary.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Minor) Concomitant administration of valproic acid and oral zidovudine may result in increase in the area under the concentration-time curve of zidovudine and a decrease in the AUC of its glucuronide metabolite. This interaction does not appear to be clinically significant unless the patient is experiencing hematologic toxicities. The dose of zidovudine may be reduced in patients who are experiencing pronounced anemia while receiving chronic coadministration of zidovudine and valproic acid.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Administer clarithromycin and zidovudine at least 2 hours apart. Simultaneous oral administration of clarithromycin immediate-release tablets and zidovudine may result in decreased steady-state zidovudine concentrations. The impact of coadministration of clarithromycin extended-release tablets or granules and zidovudine has not been evaluated.
Voriconazole: (Minor) Concomitant administration of voriconazole and zidovudine may result in a reduction in the clearance of zidovudine.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.

abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting


Gastrointestinal adverse events that occurred during combination therapy with abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine include nausea (19%), nausea plus vomiting (10%), and diarrhea (7%). Adverse events noted in postmarketing reports with any of the three components include stomatitis, anorexia, decreased appetite, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, and oral mucosal pigmentation.


chills, fatigue, fever, malaise, vasculitis, weakness


During clinical trials with abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine, malaise and fatigue (12%), fever and chills (6%), nonspecific pain (less than 1%), and nondefined renal signs and symptoms (less than 1%) were reported. Vasculitis and weakness were noted in postmarketing reports.


anemia, aplastic anemia, bone marrow suppression, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, red cell aplasia, splenomegaly, thrombocytopenia


Zidovudine has been associated with bone marrow suppression and hematologic toxicities, including neutropenia and anemia, particularly in patients with advanced HIV infection. During clinical trials, neutropenia (less than 750 cells/mm3) was observed in 5% of patients who received combination therapy with abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine; however, none of the drug recipients developed anemia (Hgb 6.9 g/dL or less). Adverse events noted in postmarketing reports with any of the three components included aplastic anemia, anemia (including red cell aplasia and severe anemias progressing on therapy), lymphadenopathy, thrombocytopenia, and splenomegaly. Administer with caution to patients with evidence of bone marrow suppression (granulocyte count less than 1,000 cells/mm3 or hemoglobin less than 9.5 g/dL). Monitor blood counts frequently in patients with advanced HIV infection; if anemia or neutropenia develops, consider interruption of therapy.


arthralgia, elevated creatine kinase, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis


Myopathy and myositis, with pathological changes similar to those produced by HIV infection, have been associated with prolonged use of zidovudine in an estimated 17% of drug recipients. Common symptoms of zidovudine-induced myopathy include progressive generalized muscle pain, weakness, and fatigue. Patients frequently experience muscle atrophy and increased creatine kinase, indicating muscle damage. Symptoms usually resolve about 4 weeks after stopping treatment. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy during treatment with abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine. During clinical trials, musculoskeletal pain was reported in 5% of patients and elevated creatine kinase (CPK) concentrations greater than 4-times the upper limit of normal were observed in 7% of drug recipients. Postmarketing reports have additionally noted occurrences of arthralgia, myalgia, muscle weakness, and rhabdomyolysis.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, lactic acidosis, steatosis


Lactic acidosis and severe hepatotoxicity, including fatal cases, have been reported in patients receiving nucleoside analogues such as abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine. Typically, these adverse reactions present with symptoms such as enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) and fatty liver (steatosis), even in the absence of significant elevations in liver transaminases. Suspend treatment in patients who develop clinical or laboratory findings suggest lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity. During clinical trials, 6% of patients treated with abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine developed elevated hepatic enzymes greater than 5-times the upper limit of normal. Elevated hepatic enzymes and hyperbilirubinemia were also noted during postmarketing use.


gynecomastia, lipodystrophy


Lipodystrophy, specifically lipoatrophy, has been reported in patients receiving zidovudine. This adverse reaction is characterized by the loss of subcutaneous fat, predominantly affecting areas such as the face, limbs, and buttocks. The incidence and severity of lipoatrophy are related to cumulative exposure to zidovudine. Although some improvement may occur after switching to a non-zidovudine-containing regimen, the reversal of fat loss is often only partial and can take months to years. Regular assessment for signs of lipoatrophy is advised, and transitioning to an alternative regimen should be considered if lipoatrophy is suspected. Postmarketing reports involving abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine have additionally noted occurrences of gynecomastia and redistribution or accumulation of body fat.


alopecia, erythema multiforme, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis


A skin rash developed in 5% of patients who received abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine during clinical trials. Adverse events noted in postmarketing reports with any of the three components include suspected Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), erythema multiforme, and alopecia. For abacavir, SJS and TEN have been primarily reported in patients receiving concurrent treatment with other medications known to be associated with SJS and TEN. Due to the overlap of clinical signs and symptoms between hypersensitivity to abacavir and these severe skin conditions, abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine should be discontinued and not restarted in such cases.


anxiety, depression, dizziness, headache, insomnia, paresthesias, seizures


Neurologic and psychiatric adverse events that occurred during clinical trials of abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine included headache (13%), depression (6%), and anxiety (5%). Additionally, five patients receiving abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine experienced worsening of pre-existing depression compared to none in the indinavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine group, even though the background rates of pre-existing depression were similar in the two treatment arms. Adverse reactions noted in postmarketing reports with any of the three components include dizziness, paresthesias, seizures, insomnia, and other sleep disorders.


infection


Infection of the ear, nose, and throat (5%) and viral respiratory infections (5%) were reported with the use of abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine during clinical trials.


cardiomyopathy, myocardial infarction


Cardiomyopathy has been noted during postmarketing use of abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine. Additionally, treatment with abacavir was linked with the development of myocardial infarction (MI) in several prospective, observational, epidemiologic trials. In contrast to these trials, a meta-analysis of 26 randomized clinical trials conducted by the FDA failed to reveal an association between treatment with abacavir-containing regimens and development of MI (OR = 1.02; 95% CI: 0.56 to 1.84). In light of the conflicting data, caution is advised when prescribing abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine to patients with pre-existing coronary heart disease. Healthcare providers are encouraged to minimize a patient's modifiable risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and smoking) prior to prescribing abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine.


wheezing


Wheezing and abnormal breath sounds have been noted in postmarketing reports with abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine.


acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), azotemia, conjunctivitis, cough, dyspnea, edema, hepatic failure, hypotension, lethargy, lymphopenia, maculopapular rash, oral ulceration, pharyngitis, renal failure, respiratory failure, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, urticaria


Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis to abacavir can be severe, life-threatening, and sometimes fatal. These reactions typically occur within the first six weeks of treatment, with a median onset time of nine days, though they can appear at any time during therapy. Common symptoms include fever, rash, gastrointestinal symptoms (abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting), constitutional symptoms (general malaise, fatigue, achiness), and respiratory symptoms (pharyngitis, dyspnea, cough). Almost all abacavir hypersensitivity reactions include fever and/or rash as part of the syndrome. Other signs and symptoms include lethargy, headache, myalgia, arthralgia, edema, and paresthesias. Physical findings include lymphadenopathy, mucous membrane lesions (conjunctivitis and oral ulceration), and rash. The rash, if present, usually appears as a maculopapular rash or urticarial rash (urticaria) but may be variable in appearance. There have been reports of erythema multiforme. Laboratory findings include elevated liver enzymes, elevated creatine kinase, increased creatinine/BUN (azotemia), lymphopenia, and localized infiltrates on chest x-ray. Anaphylaxis, hepatic failure, renal failure, hypotension, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), respiratory failure, myolysis, and death have occurred in association with these hypersensitivity reactions. Patients carrying the HLA-B*5701 allele are at higher risk, but hypersensitivity can occur in those without the allele as well. Screen all potential drug recipients for the HLA-B*5701 allele. In clinical trials, the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions to abacavir was 8% when HLA-B*5701 screening was not performed; the incidence was 1% when HLA-B*5701-positive patients were excluded. Upon suspicion of a hypersensitivity reaction, abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine must be immediately discontinued, and the drug must not be restarted under any circumstances due to the risk of more severe symptoms, including death.


hepatitis B exacerbation


Severe acute hepatitis B exacerbation has been reported in patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HIV coinfection who have discontinued lamivudine. These exacerbations typically manifest with clinical and laboratory evidence of worsening hepatic function. Monitor hepatic function closely with both clinical and laboratory follow-up for at least several months after stopping treatment. If warranted, initiating anti-hepatitis B therapy may be appropriate.


vitamin B12 deficiency


Zidovudine is associated with a decrease in vitamin B12 concentrations in patients with HIV and may lead to vitamin B12 deficiency. Regular monitoring and supplementation may be necessary.


hyperamylasemia, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis


During clinical trials, pancreatitis and hyperamylasemia (greater than 2-times upper limit of normal; 2%) were observed in patients receiving treatment with abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine. Additionally, hypertriglyceridemia (greater than 750 mg/dL) was noted in 2% of drug recipients, while hyperglycemia (greater than 13.9 mmol/L) was reported in less than 1% of patients.


peripheral neuropathy


Patients with peripheral neuropathy receiving abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine can experience exacerbations during therapy due to the lamivudine component. In one case report involving a 57-year-old male with mild neuropathy, treatment with lamivudine was associated with a fatal peripheral neuropathy exacerbation. The patient had received lamivudine 300 mg daily for treatment of hepatitis. After 3 months of treatment, the patient presented with dysphonia and progressive muscle weakness. Later, the patient developed tetraparesis followed by acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation. The patient then went into sudden cardiac arrest. Treatment with lamivudine was stopped, and the neuropathy and respiratory capacity improved; however, the patient ultimately died.


autoimmune disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, immune reconstitution syndrome


Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy. During the initial phase of HIV treatment, patients whose immune system responds to abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine therapy may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), cytomegalovirus (CMV), Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis (TB)), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. In addition, autoimmune disease (including Graves' disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, and polymyositis) may develop; the time to onset is variable and may occur months after treatment initiation.


Description

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine is a combination of 3 nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), approved for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 40 kg. While it can be used alone or with other antiretroviral agents, triple-NRTI regimens have suboptimal virologic activity and are thus not recommended as initial therapy, especially in patients with higher baseline viral loads (greater than 100,000 copies/mL). The FDA-approved package labeling contains Black Box Warnings for serious and potentially fatal hypersensitivity reactions associated with abacavir, hematologic toxicity (including neutropenia and severe anemia) linked to zidovudine, symptomatic myopathy with prolonged use of zidovudine, lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis associated with all 3 components, and severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B upon discontinuation of lamivudine in patients with both hepatitis B and HIV. Abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine was FDA-approved in 2000.

Mechanism Of Action

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine is active against infections caused by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). All three drug components are nucleoside analogs, which when phosphorylated intracellularly to their active 5'-triphosphate forms, exert their antiviral effect by inhibiting HIV reverse transcriptase. They inhibit reverse transcriptase by competing with natural substrates for incorporation into viral DNA, leading to chain termination. Because the incorporated nucleoside analogs lack a 3'-hydroxyl group, they prevent the formation of the 5' to 3' phosphodiester linkage essential for DNA chain elongation, thereby inhibiting viral DNA growth.
Abacavir: Intracellularly, abacavir is converted by cellular enzymes to the active metabolite carbovir triphosphate. Carbovir triphosphate is an analog of deoxyguanosine-5'-triphosphate (dGTP). It inhibits the activity of reverse transcriptase both by competing with the natural substrate dGTP and by its incorporation into viral DNA.
Lamivudine: The active metabolite of lamivudine is lamivudine triphosphate (3TC-TP). The primary mode of action of 3TC-TP is inhibition of reverse transcriptase via viral DNA chain termination after incorporation of the nucleotide analog. It is more active in resting peripheral blood mononuclear cells than in actively dividing cells.
Zidovudine: Zidovudine triphosphate (ZDV-TP) is the active metabolite of zidovudine. It is a thymidine analog in which a 3'-azido group replaces the 3'-hydroxyl group and has greater activity in replicating cells. ZDV-TP inhibits reverse transcriptase by incorporating into viral DNA, causing chain termination.
 
Pharmacodynamics
Abacavir: In cell cultures, the 50% effective concentration (EC50) of abacavir for HIV-1 ranged from 70 to 5,800 nM and for HIV-2 ranged from 24 to 490 nM.
Lamivudine: In cell cultures, EC50 values for lamivudine ranged from 3 to 15,000 nM for HIV-1 and 3 to 120 nM for HIV-2 isolates.
Zidovudine: In cell cultures, the EC50 values for zidovudine ranged from 10 to 490 nM for HIV-1 and 0.49 to 4 nM for HIV-2 isolates.
 
Resistance
The combination of abacavir and lamivudine has demonstrated decreased activity against viruses with certain viral mutations, including M184V/I, K65R, L74V, and Y115F. M184V or I mutations result in high-level resistance to lamivudine and a 2-fold decrease in susceptibility to abacavir. Combinations of these substitutions can lead to up to an 8-fold reduction in abacavir susceptibility. Resistance to zidovudine is associated with thymidine analog mutations (TAMs) in reverse transcriptase, including M41L, D67N, K70R, L210W, T215Y/F, and K219E/R/H/Q/N. Higher resistance levels correlate with more substitutions. Cross-resistance has been observed among nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). The combination of abacavir and lamivudine shows decreased susceptibility to viruses with K65R, L74V plus M184V/I, and TAM substitutions plus M184V. TAMs confer cross-resistance to other NRTIs like abacavir, didanosine, stavudine, and tenofovir. Cross-resistance between lamivudine and zidovudine has not been reported.

Pharmacokinetics

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine is administered orally.
Abacavir: Once in the systemic circulation, the volume of distribution is 0.86 +/- 0.15 L/kg and the protein binding is approximately 50% (independent of concentration). Radiolabeled studies indicate that abacavir readily distributes into erythrocytes. The primary routes of elimination are metabolism by alcohol dehydrogenase (to form the 5'-carboxylic acid) and glucuronyl transferase (to form the 5'-glucuronide). These metabolites lack antiviral activity. In a mass balance study with a 600-mg dose of 14C-abacavir, 83% of the radioactivity was recovered in the urine (1.2% as unchanged drug, 30% as the 5'-carboxylic acid metabolite, and 36% as the 5'-glucuronide metabolite, and 15% as unidentified minor metabolites). Fecal elimination accounted for 16% of the dose. The elimination half-life is approximately 1.45 +/- 0.32 hours.
Lamivudine: Once in systemic circulation, lamivudine is less than 36% bound to human plasma proteins. The apparent volume of distribution is 1.3 +/- 0.4 L/kg, indicating distribution into extravascular spaces. This volume of distribution is independent of dose and does not correlate with body weight. Metabolism is a minor route of elimination, with the only known metabolite being the trans-sulfoxide metabolite (approximately 5% of an oral dose after 12 hours). Approximately 70% of a lamivudine dose is excreted unchanged in the urine through active organic cationic secretion. The elimination half-life ranges from 13 to 19 hours.
Zidovudine: Once in systemic circulation, zidovudine has a volume of distribution of 1.6 +/- 0.6 L/kg with low plasma protein binding (24% to 28%). Zidovudine penetrates well into the central nervous system, with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations averaging about 53% of simultaneous serum concentrations. The primary route of elimination is hepatic metabolism, forming a major glucuronidated metabolite GZDV, which has a systemic exposure (AUC) about 3-times greater than that of zidovudine. A second metabolite, 3'-amino-3'-deoxythymidine (AMT), has an AUC one-fifth that of zidovudine. After an oral dose, approximately 14% is recovered in the urine as unchanged zidovudine and 74% as GZDV. Zidovudine has a plasma half-life of 1 to 1.5 hours; however, its intracellular half-life is 3 to 4 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A1, CYP3A4
In vitro studies suggest that abacavir may inhibit CYP1A1 and has limited potential to inhibit CYP3A4-mediated metabolism, while lamivudine does not affect CYP3A4. Neither drug inhibits or induces other CYP enzymes (e.g., CYP2C9 or CYP2D6). Similarly, abacavir and lamivudine are not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are substrates of the following transporters: organic anion transporter polypeptide (OATP)1B1/3, breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), P-glycoprotein (P-gp), organic cation transporter (OCT)1, OCT2, OCT3 (lamivudine only), or multidrug and toxic extrusion protein (MATE)1 and MATE2-K. Abacavir, lamivudine, and zidovudine are minimally metabolized by CYP enzymes; thus, their concentrations are unlikely to be altered by CYP inhibitors or inducers. Abacavir is an in vitro substrate of BCRP and P-gp, but its high bioavailability minimizes the clinical impact of these transporters. Lamivudine is an in vitro substrate of MATE1, MATE2-K, and OCT2. Concurrent administration with an inhibitor of these drug transporters did increase lamivudine plasma concentrations; however, the increase was not considered clinically significant. Lamivudine is also a substrate of P-gp and BCRP; however, its high bioavailability suggests minimal impact from efflux transporter inhibitors.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

In a single-dose, 3-way crossover study in healthy volunteers, one Trizivir tablet (abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine) was bioequivalent to one 300 mg abacavir tablet, one 150 mg lamivudine tablet, plus one 300 mg zidovudine tablet.
Abacavir: Abacavir is rapidly absorbed with an oral bioavailability of approximately 86%. In a single-dose bioavailability trial, administration with a high-fat meal resulted in a 32% decrease in Cmax but did not alter the extent of absorption (AUC).
Lamivudine: Absorption is rapid, with an oral bioavailability of approximately 86%. In a single-dose bioavailability trial, administration with a high-fat meal resulted in an 18% decrease in Cmax but did not alter the extent of absorption (AUC).
Zidovudine: Rapidly absorbed with an oral bioavailability of approximately 64%. In a single-dose bioavailability trial, administration with a high-fat meal resulted in a 28% decrease in Cmax but did not alter the extent of absorption (AUC).


Hepatic Impairment


Abacavir: Studies in subjects with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A) indicate a significant alteration in abacavir pharmacokinetics. There is a mean increase of 89% in the systemic exposure (AUC) and a 58% increase in the half-life of abacavir after a single 600 mg dose. While the AUCs of the metabolites remain unchanged by mild liver disease, the rates of formation and elimination of these metabolites are decreased. Abacavir pharmacokinetics have not been assessed in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment.
Lamivudine: The pharmacokinetics of lamivudine are not significantly altered in patients with impaired hepatic function. Safety and efficacy have not been established in patients with decompensated liver disease.
Zidovudine: Zidovudine is primarily eliminated through hepatic metabolism. Limited data indicate that zidovudine clearance is decreased, and plasma concentrations are increased in patients with hepatic impairment.


Renal Impairment


Abacavir: The pharmacokinetics of abacavir have not been specifically determined in patients with impaired renal function. Renal excretion of unchanged abacavir is a minor route of elimination in humans, suggesting that renal impairment may not significantly affect the overall pharmacokinetics of the drug.
Lamivudine: As renal function decreases, lamivudine clearance decreases, leading to higher plasma concentrations (Cmax) and systemic exposure (AUC); however, the time to reach maximum concentration (Tmax) is not significantly affected by renal function. Hemodialysis increases lamivudine clearance; however, hemodialysis duration (4 hours) was insufficient to significantly alter mean lamivudine exposure after a single dose. The hemodialysis extraction ratio is approximately 53% to 65%. Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and automated peritoneal dialysis have negligible effects on clearance.
Zidovudine: Zidovudine clearance is decreased in subjects with impaired renal function, leading to increased half-life and AUC. Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis do not significantly remove zidovudine but enhance the elimination of its metabolite GZDV.


Gender Differences

No significant or clinically relevant gender differences in the pharmacokinetics of abacavir, lamivudine, or zidovudine have been identified based on available data.

Ethnic Differences

No significant or clinically relevant ethnic differences in the pharmacokinetics of abacavir or lamivudine have been identified based on available data. The pharmacokinetics of zidovudine with respect to race have not been determined.

Other

Pregnancy
Abacavir: A population pharmacokinetic analysis of 266 samples from 36 pregnant and 114 non-pregnant females, found the pharmacokinetics of abacavir to be unchanged during pregnancy. Similarly, 1 pharmacokinetic study found abacavir exposure in 25 pregnant women receiving 300 mg twice daily during the third trimester to be comparable to exposures observed in postpartum women and historical controls of non-pregnant patients with HIV. Abacavir crosses the placenta via passive diffusion, with drug concentrations in neonatal plasma cord samples at birth being essentially equal to those in the maternal plasma at the time of delivery.
Lamivudine: Although population pharmacokinetic modeling suggests the oral clearance of lamivudine is increased by 22% during pregnancy, limited data from 2 studies involving 36 pregnant women (16 at 36 weeks, 20 at 38 weeks gestation) found the pharmacokinetics of lamivudine to be similar to those observed in non-pregnant and postpartum adults. No change in dose is indicated. In addition, placental transfer of lamivudine results in drug concentrations that are 2 times greater than maternal serum levels.
Zidovudine: Zidovudine pharmacokinetics are not significantly altered during pregnancy, and no change in dose is indicated. There is high placental transfer to the fetus.


Administration

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
NOTE: Screen for HLA-B*5701 before initiating treatment to reduce the risk of hypersensitivity reaction. HLA-B*5701-positive patients MUST not receive abacavir.
 
NOTE: Interruptions of therapy may be necessary for specific situations.
If an unanticipated short-term treatment interruption (i.e., less than 1 to 2 days) is necessary, it is generally recommended that all antiretroviral agents be discontinued simultaneously, especially if the interruption occurs in a pregnant patient or is because of serious toxicity.
If a short-term treatment interruption is anticipated, as in the case of elective surgery, consider the pharmacokinetic properties and food requirements of the specific antiretroviral medications. Stopping a treatment regimen containing medications with differing half-lives may result in functional monotherapy of the antiretroviral with the longest half-life and may increase the risk for resistant mutations.
Health care providers are advised to restart a complete and effective antiretroviral regimen as soon as possible after a short-term interruption of therapy.
Planned long-term treatment interruptions are not recommended due to the potential for HIV disease progression (i.e., declining CD4 counts, viral rebound, acute viral syndrome), development of minor HIV-associated manifestations or serious non-AIDS complications, development of drug resistance, increased risk of HIV transmission, and increased risk for opportunistic infections.
If therapy must be discontinued, counsel the patient on the potential risks and closely monitor for any clinical or laboratory abnormalities.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.


Oral Administration


Administer with or without food.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Abacavir 600 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day; zidovudine 600 mg/day.

Geriatric

Abacavir 600 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day; zidovudine 600 mg/day.

Adolescents

weight 40 kg or more: Abacavir 600 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day; zidovudine 600 mg/day.
weight less than 40 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

weight 40 kg or more: Abacavir 600 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day; zidovudine 600 mg/day.
weight less than 40 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

The fixed-dose combination of abacavir; lamivudine; zidovudine is not recommended for use in persons with impaired hepatic function (Child-Pugh A, B, or C).

Renal Impairment

CrCl 50 mL/minutes or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
CrCl less than 50 mL/minute: Not recommended.

© 2026 Elsevier