=== amLODIPine/Celecoxib — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5055)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/200 mg per day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): esophageal stricture, esophageal ulceration, odynophagia, pyrosis (heartburn), cholelithiasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, jaundice, pancreatitis, anemia, ecchymosis, epistaxis, intracranial bleeding, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, urticaria, back pain, headache, migraine, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia, conjunctivitis, diplopia, hearing loss

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

AMLODIPINE/CELECOXIB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

CONSENSI

Indication Specific Dosing

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
General Dosing Information:
Amlodipine; celecoxib is not appropriate for short-term or intermittent treatment or for any condition other than hypertension in patients taking celecoxib for osteoarthritis.
For patients taking celecoxib and amlodipine from separate capsules and tablets, substitute amlodipine; celecoxib using the same individual component doses.
If analgesic therapy is no longer indicated, discontinue amlodipine; celecoxib and initiate alternative antihypertensive therapy, such as amlodipine monotherapy. Monitor blood pressure carefully.
Use is not recommended in patients who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers.


For the treatment of hypertension and osteoarthritis

Oral dosage
Adults


5 mg/200 mg PO once daily. Initiate with 2.5 mg/200 mg when adding to other antihypertensive therapy. Adjust amlodipine dosage according to blood pressure goals. In general, wait 7 to 14 days between dosage titration. The maximum dosage is 10 mg/200 mg once daily.


Geriatric adults


2.5 mg/200 mg PO once daily. Adjust amlodipine dosage according to blood pressure goals. In general, wait 7 to 14 days between dosage titration. The maximum dosage is 10 mg/200 mg once daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Celecoxib is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of sulfonamide hypersensitivity.

cardiovascular disease, coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG), serious cardiovascular events


Celecoxib is contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). An increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke was found in clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days after CABG surgery. NSAIDs may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events, which can be fatal. Guidelines recommend against NSAID use in individuals presenting with and hospitalized for ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) due to increased risk of mortality and cardiovascular (CV) complications associated with their use. Avoid NSAID use in individuals with a recent myocardial infarction unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If an NSAID is used in individuals with a recent myocardial infarction, monitor for signs of cardiac ischemia. Observational data from a national registry demonstrated that individuals treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning the first week of treatment. An increased relative risk of death in NSAID users continued during the follow-up period of 4 years. Data demonstrate that individuals treated with NSAIDs were more likely to die in the first year after a myocardial infarction compared to those not treated with NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease; however, individuals with known cardiovascular disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment with an NSAID; the increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. Current evidence is insufficient to determine if the risk of an event is higher or lower for any particular NSAID compared to other NSAIDs. There is no consistent evidence that concomitant use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk for CV thrombotic events. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated individuals, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible; remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. NSAIDs may worsen pre-existing hypertension, which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Monitor blood pressure during NSAID treatment initiation and throughout therapy. Avoid NSAID use in individuals with severe heart failure, unless the benefits of treatment are expected to outweigh the risks. Monitor for signs of worsening heart failure if an NSAID is used in individuals with severe heart failure. Monitor renal function in individuals with heart failure during use of an NSAID. Data demonstrate an increased risk for myocardial infarction, hospitalization for heart failure, and death with NSAID use in individuals with heart failure.


severe aortic stenosis


Symptomatic hypotension is possible with amlodipine, particularly in individuals with severe aortic stenosis.


bleeding disorder, ethanol ingestion, GI bleeding, peptic ulcer disease, serious gastrointestinal events, tobacco smoking


Individuals with a prior history of GI bleeding and/or peptic ulcer disease who use NSAIDs had a more than 10-fold increased risk of developing a GI bleed compared to individuals without these risk factors. Individuals with advanced hepatic disease or bleeding disorder are also at increased risk for GI bleeding. Other risk factors for GI bleeding in individuals receiving NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy, concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), tobacco smoking, ethanol ingestion, older age, and poor general health status. Serious gastrointestinal events, including bleeding, inflammation, perforation, and ulceration, can occur at any time and without warning symptoms in individuals receiving NSAIDs. To minimize the risk of an adverse GI event in NSAID-treated individuals, use the lowest effective NSAID dose for the shortest possible duration. Avoid concurrent administration of other NSAIDs; in the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor more closely for evidence of GI bleeding. Avoid NSAID use in individuals at higher risk for GI adverse events unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased bleeding risk, and consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs for those individuals and individuals with active GI bleeding. Monitor individuals for signs and symptoms of GI bleeding and ulceration during NSAID therapy.


aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, asthma


Amlodipine; celecoxib is contraindicated in individuals with aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps, severe and potentially fatal acute bronchospasm, and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. When an NSAID is used in individuals with pre-existing asthma without known aspirin sensitivity, monitor for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma.


hypovolemia, renal disease


Amlodipine; celecoxib is not recommended for use in individuals with severe renal insufficiency. Avoid NSAID use in individuals with advanced renal disease, unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risks of worsening renal function. If an NSAID is used in individuals with advanced renal disease, monitor for signs and symptoms of worsening renal function. Correct volume status in individuals with dehydration or hypovolemia prior to starting an NSAID. Monitor renal function in individuals with renal impairment, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of an NSAID. NSAID use in individuals with renal impairment, dehydration, or hypovolemia in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion may precipitate renal decompensation. The renal effects of NSAIDs may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in individuals with pre-existing renal disease.


hepatic disease


Avoid the use of amlodipine; celecoxib in individuals with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B) or severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class C). A lower initial amlodipine; celecoxib dose is recommended in individuals with mild hepatic insufficiency (Child-Pugh class A). Monitor renal function in individuals with hepatic impairment during use of an NSAID. NSAID use in individuals with hepatic failure in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion may precipitate renal decompensation. Advanced hepatic disease is also a risk factor for GI bleeding in individuals who use NSAIDs.


CYP2C9 poor metabolizer


Amlodipine; celecoxib is not recommended in an individual who is a known or suspected CYP2C9 poor metabolizer based on genotype or previous history or experience with other CYP2C9 substrates. Celecoxib plasma concentrations may be elevated in these individuals.


geriatric


A lower initial amlodipine; celecoxib dose is recommended in geriatric adults. Geriatric adults, compared to younger individuals, are at greater risk for NSAID-associated serious cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and/or renal adverse reactions. If the anticipated benefit for the older adult outweighs these potential risks, start dosing at the low end of the dosing range, and monitor for adverse effects. In general, use cautious dose selection for amlodipine in older adults, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Older adults have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in overall amlodipine exposure. According to the Beers Criteria, NSAIDs are considered potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in geriatric adults. There is an increased risk of GI bleeding and peptic ulcer disease in high-risk groups including those older than 75 years, or those taking systemic corticosteroids, anticoagulants, or antiplatelet medications. The risk of GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation is cumulative with continued use. Avoid the chronic use of NSAIDs in high-risk individuals, including those with a history of gastric or duodenal ulcers, unless other alternatives are not effective, and the individual can take a gastroprotective agent. The use of a gastroprotective agent, like a proton pump inhibitor or misoprostol, reduces but does not eliminate GI risks. NSAIDs may also increase blood pressure and induce kidney injury. Avoid use of NSAIDs in geriatric adults with the following conditions due to the potential for symptom exacerbation or adverse effects: symptomatic heart failure (fluid retention, symptom exacerbation) or chronic kidney disease Stage 4 or higher (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) (acute kidney injury, further decline of renal function). Use with caution in individuals with asymptomatic heart failure.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


NSAIDs may pose a reproductive risk by delaying or preventing prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in people who may become pregnant who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation.


pregnancy


There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of amlodipine; celecoxib during pregnancy. Observational data regarding embryofetal risks of NSAID use during the first trimester is inconclusive; however, animal data suggest a risk for fetal harm throughout gestation. Avoid amlodipine; celecoxib use during the third trimester of pregnancy (starting at 30 weeks of gestation) due to the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus and persistent pulmonary hypertension in the neonate. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks or later in pregnancy may cause rare but serious kidney problems in the fetus. If NSAID treatment is deemed necessary between 20 to 30 weeks of pregnancy, limit use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if NSAID treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue the NSAID if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some postmarketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. The available data from postmarketing reports and a small study with amlodipine use in pregnant individuals with mild to moderate chronic hypertension did not identify a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Hypertension during pregnancy increases the risk of preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, premature delivery, and delivery complications. Fetal risks include intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death. Monitor pregnant individuals with hypertension carefully and manage accordingly.


breast-feeding


Use celecoxib with caution during breast-feeding. Celecoxib is excreted into human milk. Low concentrations of celecoxib were detected in the breast milk of 12 subjects; the calculated average daily infant dose was 10 to 40 mcg/kg/day, which is less than 1% of the weight-based therapeutic dose for a 2-year-old child. No adverse effects were reported among 2 breastfed infants who were 17 and 22 months of age. Because of the low concentrations of celecoxib that are transferred to breast milk, some experts suggest that risk to a breast-feeding infant would be minimal. Alternative analgesic and anti-inflammatory drugs considered to be usually compatible with breast-feeding by previous American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations include acetaminophen, ibuprofen, indomethacin, naproxen, and piroxicam. Amlodipine is present in human breast milk, although no adverse effects of amlodipine on the breastfed infant have been observed. There is no information on the effect of amlodipine on milk production. In a study of 31 lactating subjects with pregnancy-induced hypertension, the median relative infant dose (RID) of amlodipine in human milk was 4.2% (interquartile range, 3.12% to 7.25%) and the maximum RID was 15.2%. No adverse effects of amlodipine on the breastfed infant have been observed. In another study that enrolled 8 lactating subjects, the average RID for amlodipine was 3.4% (range, 1.56% to 4.32%).


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of amlodipine; celecoxib during pregnancy. Observational data regarding embryofetal risks of NSAID use during the first trimester is inconclusive; however, animal data suggest a risk for fetal harm throughout gestation. Avoid amlodipine; celecoxib use during the third trimester of pregnancy (starting at 30 weeks of gestation) due to the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus and persistent pulmonary hypertension in the neonate. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks or later in pregnancy may cause rare but serious kidney problems in the fetus. If NSAID treatment is deemed necessary between 20 to 30 weeks of pregnancy, limit use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if NSAID treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue the NSAID if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some postmarketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. The available data from postmarketing reports and a small study with amlodipine use in pregnant individuals with mild to moderate chronic hypertension did not identify a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Hypertension during pregnancy increases the risk of preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, premature delivery, and delivery complications. Fetal risks include intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death. Monitor pregnant individuals with hypertension carefully and manage accordingly.


Interactions

Acebutolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with amlodipine may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of amlodipine could decrease dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to dihydrocodeine. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine. (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with celecoxib may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, dihydromorphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations and increase dihydromorphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to dihydromorphine, and by CYP3A4. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with celecoxib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with celecoxib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function during coadministration of acyclovir and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Coadministration may increase the risk for drug-induced nephrotoxicity.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for celecoxib-related adverse effects and consider a celecoxib dosage reduction as appropriate based on response if concomitant use with adagrasib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and adagrasib is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor increased celecoxib overall exposure by 2-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with adagrasib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Adefovir: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Adenosine: (Moderate) Use adenosine with caution in the presence of calcium-channel blockers due to the potential for additive or synergistic depressant effects on the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Aldesleukin, IL-2: (Major) Aldesleukin, IL-2 may cause nephrotoxicity. Concurrent administration of drugs possessing nephrotoxic effects, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs), with Aldesleukin, IL-2 may increase the risk of kidney dysfunction. In addition, reduced kidney function secondary to Aldesleukin, IL-2 treatment may delay elimination of concomitant medications and increase the risk of adverse events from those drugs.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Alendronate: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If amlodipine is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Alpelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of celecoxib during coadministration of alpelisib as plasma concentrations of celecoxib may be decreased. Celecoxib is a sensitive CYP2C9 substrate; in vitro data suggest alpelisib is a CYP2C9 inducer.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Alteplase: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving calcium-channel blockers should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. Patients receiving amifostine at doses recommended for chemotherapy should have antihypertensive therapy interrupted 24 hours preceding administration of amifostine. If the antihypertensive cannot be stopped for 24 hours before chemotherapy doses of amifostine, patients should not receive amifostine.
Amikacin: (Moderate) It is possible that additive nephrotoxicity may occur in patients who receive nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) concurrently with other nephrotoxic agents, such as amikacin.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Moderate) Agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of NSAIDs before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable. (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for celecoxib-related adverse effects and consider a celecoxib dosage reduction as appropriate based on response if concomitant use with amiodarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and amiodarone is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor increased celecoxib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amitriptyline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary; a dose reduction of amitriptyline may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of amitriptyline. Amitriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate and celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Amobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for amoxapine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of amoxapine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and amoxapine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Amphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Moderate) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other nephrotoxic medications, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity. Monitor renal function carefully during concurrent therapy. Amphotericin B dosage reduction may be necessary if renal impairment occurs.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Moderate) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other nephrotoxic medications, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity. Monitor renal function carefully during concurrent therapy. Amphotericin B dosage reduction may be necessary if renal impairment occurs.
Amphotericin B: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other nephrotoxic medications, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity. Monitor renal function carefully during concurrent therapy. Amphotericin B dosage reduction may be necessary if renal impairment occurs.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of celecoxib if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; a celecoxib dosage adjustment may be necessary. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of celecoxib.
Apixaban: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if amlodipine and a multi-day regimen of oral aprepitant are used concurrently; monitor for an increase in amlodipine-related adverse effects for several days after administration. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of amlodipine. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important. (Minor) Use caution if celecoxib and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for a possible decrease in the efficacy of celecoxib. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares the same drug interactions. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and aprepitant is a CYP2C9 inducer. Administration of a CYP2C9 substrate, tolbutamide, on days 1, 4, 8, and 15 with a 3-day regimen of oral aprepitant (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg) decreased the tolbutamide AUC by 23% on day 4, 28% on day 8, and 15% on day 15. The AUC of tolbutamide was decreased by 8% on day 2, 16% on day 4, 15% on day 8, and 10% on day 15 when given prior to oral administration of aprepitant 40 mg on day 1, and on days 2, 4, 8, and 15. The effects of aprepitant on tolbutamide were not considered significant. When a 3-day regimen of aprepitant (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg) given to healthy patients on stabilized chronic warfarin therapy (another CYP2C9 substrate), a 34% decrease in S-warfarin trough concentrations was noted, accompanied by a 14% decrease in the INR at five days after completion of aprepitant.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of celecoxib. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus celecoxib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; celecoxib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Armodafinil: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Minor) Some antineoplastic agents cause thrombocytopenia, and patients with thrombocytopenia are at increased risk of bleeding complications. Celecoxib does not generally affect platelet counts, prothrombin time, or partial thromboplastin time, and does not inhibit platelet aggregation at indicated dosages. It is unclear if celecoxib is associated with less risk than other NSAIDs due to its lack of platelet inhibitory effects; bleeding events have occurred with celecoxib.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for celecoxib-related adverse effects and consider a celecoxib dosage reduction as appropriate based on response if concomitant use with asciminib 200 mg twice daily is necessary. Concomitant use may increase celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor increased celecoxib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Aspirin, ASA: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with celecoxib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Auranofin: (Moderate) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by NSAIDs, concurrent use with other nephrotoxic agents, such as gold compounds, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor renal function carefully during concurrent therapy.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Avanafil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure closely during concomitant use of avanafil and amlodipine as coadministration may increase the risk of additive hypotension. Avanafil is a substrate of CYP3A and amlodipine is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with amlodipine increased the AUC of avanafil by approximately 70% and the half-life was prolonged to approximately 10 hours. A mean maximum decrease in supine systolic blood pressure of 1.2 mmHg (compared to placebo), accompanied by a mean maximum increase in pulse rate of 1 beat per minute was observed.
azaTHIOprine: (Moderate) NSAIDs should be used with caution in patients receiving immunosuppressives as they may mask fever, pain, swelling and other signs and symptoms of an infection.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Bacitracin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of bacitracin with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Coadministration may increase the risk for drug-induced nephrotoxicity.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Balsalazide: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function during coadministration of balsalazide and celecoxib. Coadministration may increase the risk for drug-induced nephrotoxicity. Balsalazide is converted to mesalamine in the gastrointestinal tract; nephrotoxicity has been observed during mesalamine treatment.
Barbiturates: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with amlodipine may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Discontinuation of amlodipine in a patient taking benzhydrocodone may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP3A4. Amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Concurrent use of phenyl salicylate and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risks of bleeding and nephrotoxicity. Concurrent use of phenyl salicylate and NSAIDs does not produce greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with berotralstat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Bexarotene: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as bexarotene, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. (Moderate) Monitor for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) or emtricitabine-related adverse events during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase NSAID or emtricitabine concentrations. Coadministration of drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as NSAIDs and emtricitabine, may increase the risk of adverse reactions.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with lenacapavir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Minor) Since celecoxib is metabolized by cytochrome P450 2C9, concurrent administration with metronidazole, which can inhibit this enzyme, may result in increased levels of celecoxib. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with salicylates, such as bismuth subsalicylate, due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with salicylates, such as bismuth subsalicylate, due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy. (Minor) Since celecoxib is metabolized by cytochrome P450 2C9, concurrent administration with metronidazole, which can inhibit this enzyme, may result in increased levels of celecoxib. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with bosentan is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and bosentan. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for brexpiprazole-related adverse reactions and consider a dosage reduction of brexpiprazole if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary. Celecoxib may enhance the systemic exposure and toxicity of brexpiprazole. In vitro studies indicate that celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Brexpiprazole is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) If a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDs concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. NSAIDs may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDs have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Busulfan: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of busulfan, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with celecoxib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with celecoxib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including amlodipine. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Calcium Acetate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Chloride: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Gluconate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Phosphate, Supersaturated: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Calcium: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Capreomycin: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Captopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor carbamazepine concentrations and blood pressure closely during coadministration of amlodipine; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may increase carbamazepine concentrations. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong inducer and amlodipine is CYP3A substrate and inhibitor. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carmustine, BCNU: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of carmustine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. These additive effects may not occur for at least 6 weeks after the administration of carmustine due to the delayed myelosuppressive effects of carmustine.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Cefotaxime: (Minor) Cefotaxime's product label states that cephalosporins may potentiate the adverse renal effects of nephrotoxic agents, such as aminoglycosides, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and loop diuretics. Carefully monitor renal function, especially during prolonged therapy or use of high aminoglycoside doses. The majority of reported cases involve the combination of aminoglycosides and cephalothin or cephaloridine, which are associated with dose-related nephrotoxicity as singular agents. Limited but conflicting data with other cephalosporins have been noted.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol, signs of opioid withdrawal, seizures, or serotonin syndrome if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary. If celecoxib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate and celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use of tramadol with CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of tramadol and decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite M1. Since M1 is a more potent mu-opioid agonist, decreased M1 exposure could result in decreased therapeutic effects, and may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol. Increased tramadol exposure can result in increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and increased risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with cenobamate is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ceritinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorambucil: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of chlorambucil, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Theoretically, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as chloramphenicol, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine via CYP3A4 inhibition; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when chloramphenicol is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amitriptyline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary; a dose reduction of amitriptyline may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of amitriptyline. Amitriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate and celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with celecoxib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with celecoxib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with salicylates, such as magnesium salicylate, due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy. (Major) Concurrent use of choline salicylate and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risks of bleeding and nephrotoxicity. Concurrent use of choline salicylate and NSAIDs does not produce greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone.
Cholinesterase inhibitors: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Chromium: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant administration of cidofovir and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is contraindicated due to the potential for increased nephrotoxicity. NSAIDs should be discontinued 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Cimetidine: (Minor) Since celecoxib is metabolized by cytochrome P450 2C9, concurrent administration with cimetidine, which can inhibit this enzyme, may result in increased levels of celecoxib. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ciprofloxacin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure. (Moderate) Use quinolones and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) concomitantly with caution due to potential increased risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures. NSAIDs in combination with very high doses of quinolones have been shown to provoke convulsions in preclinical studies and postmarketing.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Cladribine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of cladribine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
cloBAZam: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as clobazam, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Clofarabine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for clomipramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of clomipramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and clomipramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced therapeutic response to clopidogrel when it is coadministered with amlodipine. Although clopidogrel is primarily converted to its active metabolite via CYP2C19, it has been suggested that calcium channel blocker (CCB)-induced inhibition of CYP3A4 reduces its conversion to the active metabolite, thereby reducing its antiplatelet effect. Because amlodipine has represented the largest subgroup of CCB studied, it is unknown whether this is a class effect. It has been theorized that CCBs that inhibit P-glycoprotein (P-gp) decrease the intestinal efflux of clopidogrel, thereby increasing its plasma concentrations and counteracting the effect of CCB-induced CYP3A4 inhibition. Amlodipine is not a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for clozapine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of clozapine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and clozapine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) Clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with celecoxib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with celecoxib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with celecoxib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with celecoxib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with celecoxib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations. (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with celecoxib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Major) The administration of colistimethate sodium may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when used concurrently. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may theoretically increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Colistin: (Major) The administration of colistimethate sodium may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when used concurrently. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may theoretically increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with conivaptan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of amlodipine and oral conivaptan doubled amlodipine's overall exposure in a drug interaction study.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with crizotinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Caution should be used when cyclosporine is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored, including cyclosporine levels as necessary. Amlodipine may increase cyclosporine concentrations. In one study, whole blood cyclosporine trough concentrations increased from 140.2 +/- 18.2 to 200 +/- 21.9 mcg/L after amlodipine addition. In another study, the systemic exposure (AUC) of cyclosporine increased following the addition of amlodipine, and was decreased in the absence of the drug. The postulated mechanism is the inhibitory effect of amlodipine on the P-glycoprotein-mediated efflux of cyclosporine from intestinal epithelial cells. In addition, amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4; cyclosporine is a substrate with a narrow therapeutic index. Also, amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and theoretically, cyclosporine, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine via CYP3A4 inhibition; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. (Moderate) Serum creatinine,potassium concentrations, and cyclosporine concentrations should be closely monitored when systemic cyclosporine is given with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Renal dysfunction associated with cyclosporine may be potentiated by concurrent usage of NSAIDs. The effects of NSAIDs on the production of renal prostaglandins may cause changes in the elimination of cyclosporine. Potentiation of renal dysfunction may especially occur in a dehydrated patient. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of cyclosporine toxicity and infection, as NSAIDs may mask fever, pain, or swelling.
Cytarabine, ARA-C: (Major) The main toxic effect of cytarabine, ARA-C is bone marrow suppression with leukopenia, thrombocytopenia and anemia. Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of cytarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Dipyridamole can block membrane transport of cytarabine in tumor cells, therefore decreasing its antineoplastic activity.
Dabigatran: (Major) Educate patients about the signs of increased bleeding and the need to report these signs to a healthcare provider immediately if coadministration of dabigatran and a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) is necessary. Dabigatran can cause significant and, sometimes, fatal bleeding. This risk may be increased by concurrent use of chronic NSAID therapy.
Dabrafenib: (Major) The concomitant use of dabrafenib and celecoxib may lead to decreased celecoxib concentrations and loss of efficacy. Use of an alternative agent is recommended. If concomitant use of these agents is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of celecoxib efficacy; a celecoxib dose adjustment may be necessary. Dabrafenib is a weak CYP2C9 inducer and celecoxib is a sensitive CYP2C9 substrate. Concomitant use of dabrafenib with a single dose of another sensitive CYP2C9 substrate decreased the AUC value of the sensitive CYP2C9 substrate by 37%. (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as dabrafenib, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Dacarbazine, DTIC: (Major) Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia are common toxicities of dacarbazine, DTIC. Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of dacarbazine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concurrent use with skeletal muscle relaxants and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for darifenacin-related adverse reactions and consider a dosage reduction of darifenacin if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary. Celecoxib may enhance the systemic exposure and toxicity of darifenacin. In vitro studies indicate that celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. (Moderate) Monitor for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) or emtricitabine-related adverse events during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase NSAID or emtricitabine concentrations. Coadministration of drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as NSAIDs and emtricitabine, may increase the risk of adverse reactions. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Dasatinib: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic and possible platelet inhibiting effects of dasatinib, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors (including aspirin), strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Caution should be exercised if patients are required to take medications that inhibit platelet function or anticoagulants concomitantly with dasatinib.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including NSAIDs. In addition, coadministration of deferasirox with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including NSAIDs, may increase the acute renal failure. Monitor serum creatinine and/or creatinine clearance in patients who are receiving deferasirox and nephrotoxic drugs concomitantly. (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as deferasirox, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Delafloxacin: (Moderate) Use quinolones and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) concomitantly with caution due to potential increased risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures. NSAIDs in combination with very high doses of quinolones have been shown to provoke convulsions in preclinical studies and postmarketing.
Desipramine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for desipramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of desipramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and desipramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Desmopressin: (Major) Additive hyponatremic effects may be seen in patients treated with desmopressin and drugs associated with hyponatremia including NSAIDs. Use combination with caution, and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia. A woman who took both desmopressin and ibuprofen was found in a comatose state. As her serum sodium concentration was 121 mmol/L, and her plasma osmolality was low in the presence of a high-normal urine osmolality and normal sodium excretion, she was treated with fluid restriction. Her serum sodium concentration was 124 mmol/L within a day and was 135 mmol/L by the second day. The woman had previously received desmopressin without the development of clinical symptoms of hyponatremia.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by desvenlafaxine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking desvenlafaxine with NSAIDs.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of dexmedetomidine and calcium-channel blockers could lead to additive hypotension and bradycardia; use together with caution. Dexmedetomidine can produce bradycardia or AV block and should be used cautiously in patients who are receiving antihypertensive drugs that may lower the heart rate such as calcium-channel blockers.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased quinidine adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase quinidine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; quinidine is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index. In addition, quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Diclofenac: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of calcium-channel blockers. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Diflunisal: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of diflunisal with any other NSAID, including COX-2 inhibitors, due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Monitor digoxin concentrations before and during concomitant use of celecoxib and reduce the digoxin dose if necessary. Elevated digoxin concentrations and prolonged digoxin half-life have been observed when celecoxib has been coadministered with digoxin.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with diltiazem is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with diltiazem in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
DOCEtaxel: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of docetaxel, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors (including aspirin), strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Donepezil: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in doxepin-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of celecoxib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase doxepin exposure; doxepin is primarily metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 and celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of celecoxib and doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and doxorubicin is a CYP2D6 substrate. Clinically significant interactions have been reported when doxorubicin was coadministered with inhibitors of CYP2D6, resulting in increased concentration and clinical effect of doxorubicin.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of celecoxib and doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and doxorubicin is a CYP2D6 substrate. Clinically significant interactions have been reported when doxorubicin was coadministered with inhibitors of CYP2D6, resulting in increased concentration and clinical effect of doxorubicin.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with amlodipine is necessary, and monitor for an increase in dronabinol-related adverse reactions (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence). Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant use may result in elevated plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Drospirenone: (Minor) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Other drugs that may have additive effects on serum potassium with drospirenone include chronic treatment with NSAIDs, and monitoring of serum potassium in the 1st month of concurrent therapy is recommended.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Minor) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Other drugs that may have additive effects on serum potassium with drospirenone include chronic treatment with NSAIDs, and monitoring of serum potassium in the 1st month of concurrent therapy is recommended.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Minor) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Other drugs that may have additive effects on serum potassium with drospirenone include chronic treatment with NSAIDs, and monitoring of serum potassium in the 1st month of concurrent therapy is recommended.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Other drugs that may have additive effects on serum potassium with drospirenone include chronic treatment with NSAIDs, and monitoring of serum potassium in the 1st month of concurrent therapy is recommended. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Other drugs that may have additive effects on serum potassium with drospirenone include chronic treatment with NSAIDs, and monitoring of serum potassium in the 1st month of concurrent therapy is recommended. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant duloxetine and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with duvelisib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Edoxaban: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz. (Minor) Efavirenz inhibits CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 in the range of observed efavirenz plasma concentrations. Efavirenz may inhibit the metabolism of the celecoxib since it is a substrate for CYP2C9.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz. (Moderate) Monitor for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) or emtricitabine-related adverse events during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase NSAID or emtricitabine concentrations. Coadministration of drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as NSAIDs and emtricitabine, may increase the risk of adverse reactions. (Minor) Efavirenz inhibits CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 in the range of observed efavirenz plasma concentrations. Efavirenz may inhibit the metabolism of the celecoxib since it is a substrate for CYP2C9.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz. (Minor) Efavirenz inhibits CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 in the range of observed efavirenz plasma concentrations. Efavirenz may inhibit the metabolism of the celecoxib since it is a substrate for CYP2C9.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with elagolix is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with elagolix is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering elbasvir; grazoprevir with amlodipine may cause the plasma concentrations of all three drugs to increase; thereby increasing the potential for adverse effects (i.e., elevated ALT concentrations and hepatotoxicity). Amlodipine is a substrate and weak inhibitor of CYP3A. Both elbasvir and grazoprevir are metabolized by CYP3A, and grazoprevir is also a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of hepatotoxicity.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as celecoxib. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Eliglustat: (Major) In poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs), coadministration of amlodipine and eliglustat is not recommended. In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias) in these patients. (Moderate) In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of celecoxib and eliglustat requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Celecoxib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration with CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as celecoxib, may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is a UDP-glucuronyltransferase inhibitor. NSAIDs are a substrate of UDP-glucuronyltransferases. The significance or effect of this interaction is not known; however, elevated concentrations of the NSAID are possible. Monitor patients for adverse reactions if eltrombopag is administered with an NSAID.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. (Moderate) Monitor for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) or emtricitabine-related adverse events during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase NSAID or emtricitabine concentrations. Coadministration of drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as NSAIDs and emtricitabine, may increase the risk of adverse reactions. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of celecoxib may be decreased when administered concurrently with elvitegravir. Patients may experience a decreased analgesic effect when these drugs are coadministered. Elvitegravir is a CYP2C9 inducer, while celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment. (Moderate) Monitor for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) or emtricitabine-related adverse events during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase NSAID or emtricitabine concentrations. Coadministration of drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as NSAIDs and emtricitabine, may increase the risk of adverse reactions. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of celecoxib may be decreased when administered concurrently with elvitegravir. Patients may experience a decreased analgesic effect when these drugs are coadministered. Elvitegravir is a CYP2C9 inducer, while celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Emtricitabine: (Moderate) Monitor for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) or emtricitabine-related adverse events during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase NSAID or emtricitabine concentrations. Coadministration of drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as NSAIDs and emtricitabine, may increase the risk of adverse reactions.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. (Moderate) Monitor for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) or emtricitabine-related adverse events during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase NSAID or emtricitabine concentrations. Coadministration of drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as NSAIDs and emtricitabine, may increase the risk of adverse reactions.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment. (Moderate) Monitor for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) or emtricitabine-related adverse events during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase NSAID or emtricitabine concentrations. Coadministration of drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as NSAIDs and emtricitabine, may increase the risk of adverse reactions.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. (Moderate) Monitor for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) or emtricitabine-related adverse events during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase NSAID or emtricitabine concentrations. Coadministration of drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as NSAIDs and emtricitabine, may increase the risk of adverse reactions.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment. (Moderate) Monitor for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) or emtricitabine-related adverse events during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase NSAID or emtricitabine concentrations. Coadministration of drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as NSAIDs and emtricitabine, may increase the risk of adverse reactions.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with encorafenib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Enoxaparin: (Major) Whenever possible, discontinue agents which may enhance the risk of hemorrhage, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, before initiation of enoxaparin therapy. If coadministration is essential, conduct close clinical and laboratory monitoring.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Entecavir: (Moderate) The manufacturer of entecavir recommends monitoring for adverse effects when coadministered with NSAIDs. Entecavir is primarily eliminated by the kidneys; NSAIDs can affect renal function. Concurrent administration may increase the serum concentrations of entecavir and adverse events.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with enzalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and enzalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and enzalutamide is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
ePHEDrine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
epiRUBicin: (Moderate) Close cardiac monitoring is recommended throughout therapy in patients receiving concomitant therapy with epirubicin and calcium-channel blockers. Individuals receiving these medications together are at increased risk of developing heart failure.
Eplerenone: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response. (Moderate) NSAIDs may decrease the effect of antihypertensive agents through various mechanisms, including renal and peripheral vasoactive pathways.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Erlotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of gastrointestinal (GI) perforation (e.g., severe abdominal pain, fever, nausea, and vomiting) if coadministration of erlotinib with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is necessary. Permanently discontinue erlotinib in patients who develop GI perforation. The pooled incidence of GI perforation clinical trials of erlotinib ranged from 0.1% to 0.4%, including fatal cases. Patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs may be at increased risk of perforation.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with erythromycin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding.
Eslicarbazepine: (Minor) In vivo studies suggest eslicarbazepine is an inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 substrates, such as amlodipine, may result in decreased serum concentrations of the substrates. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering and hypotensive efficacy when these drugs are coadministered with eslicarbazepine. Appropriate dose adjustments may be necessary.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormonal contraceptives should be monitored for antihypertensive effectiveness.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) If a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDs concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. NSAIDs may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDs have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol and alcohol-containing products while taking NSAIDs. Concomitant ingestion of alcohol with NSAIDs increases the risk of developing gastric irritation and GI mucosal bleeding. Alcohol is a mucosal irritant and NSAIDs decrease platelet aggregation. Routine ingestion of alcohol and NSAIDs can cause significant GI bleeding, which may or may not be overt. Even occasional concomitant use of NSAIDs and alcohol should be avoided. Chronic alcohol ingestion is often associated with hypoprothrombinemia and this condition increases the risk of bleeding.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethiodized Oil: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Etodolac: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Etomidate: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Etravirine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as etravirine, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Major) Do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 20 mg/day in patients taking amlodipine due to increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on amlodipine, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and simvastatin against the potential risks. Amlodipine increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 1.5-fold.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with fedratinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Fenofibrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenofibric Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenoprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If amlodipine is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or amlodipine; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Flecainide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flecainide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary. Flecainide is a CYP2D6 substrate and celecoxib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Plasma concentrations of flecainide may increase, especially in extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Floxuridine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of floxuridine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for celecoxib-related adverse effects and consider a celecoxib dosage reduction as appropriate based on response if concomitant use with fluconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased celecoxib overall exposure by 2-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with fluconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for fluphenazine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of fluphenazine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and fluphenazine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Flutamide: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as flutamide, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) A dose reduction of amlodipine may be required during coadministration of fluvoxamine. Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as fluvoxamine, may increase plasma concentrations of amlodipine, which might lead to hypotension and peripheral edema in some individuals. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Foscarnet: (Minor) The risk of renal toxicity may be increased if foscarnet is used in conjuction with other nephrotoxic agents, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor renal function carefully during concurrent therapy.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and phenytoin. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and phenytoin is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Furosemide: (Moderate) If a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDs concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. NSAIDs may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDs have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain.
Galantamine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Ganciclovir: (Minor) Concurrent use of nephrotoxic agents, such as NSAIDs, with ganciclovir should be done cautiously to avoid additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor renal function carefully if concomitant therapy is required.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Minor) Garlic, Allium sativum may produce clinically-significant antiplatelet effects; until more data are available, garlic should be used cautiously in patients receiving drugs with a known potential risk for bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Use quinolones and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) concomitantly with caution due to potential increased risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures. NSAIDs in combination with very high doses of quinolones have been shown to provoke convulsions in preclinical studies and postmarketing.
General anesthetics: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Gentamicin: (Moderate) It is possible that additive nephrotoxicity may occur in patients who receive nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) concurrently with other nephrotoxic agents, such as gentamicin.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Minor) Patients receiving regular therapy with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) should use ginger with caution, due to a theoretical risk of bleeding resulting from additive pharmacology related to the COX enzymes. However, clinical documentation of interactions is lacking. Several pungent constituents of ginger (Zingiber officinale) are reported to inhibit arachidonic acid (AA) induced platelet activation in human whole blood. The constituent (8)-paradol is the most potent inhibitor of COX-1 and exhibits the greatest anti-platelet activity versus other gingerol analogues. The mechanism of ginger-associated platelet inhibition may be related to decreased COX-1/Thomboxane synthase enzymatic activity.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Ginkgo biloba appears to inhibit the metabolism of calcium-channel blockers, perhaps by inhibiting the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A non-controlled pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers found that the concurrent administration of ginkgo with nifedipine resulted in a 53% increase in nifedipine peak concentrations. More study is needed regarding ginkgo's effects on CYP3A4 and whether clinically significant drug interactions result. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and NSAIDs as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Ginseng, Panax ginseng: (Moderate) Ginseng appears to inhibit the metabolism of calcium-channel blockers, perhaps by inhibiting the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A non-controlled pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers found that the concurrent administration of ginseng with nifedipine resulted in a 30% increase in nifedipine peak concentrations. More study is needed regarding ginseng's effects on CYP3A4 and whether clinically significant drug interactions result.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) NSAIDs may enhance hypoglycemia in diabetic patients via inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which indirectly increases insulin secretion. If NSAIDs are administered or discontinued in patients receiving oral antidiabetic agents, patients should be monitored for hypoglycemia or loss of blood glucose control. No clinically significant interaction between sulindac at daily doses of 400 mg and oral hypoglycemic agents has been observed. Sulindac, its sulfide metabolite, and sulfonylureas are highly bound to protein. Sulindac could displace the sulfonylureas, altering hypoglycemic activity. Careful patient monitoring is recommended to ensure that no change in their diabetes medicine dosage is required. A sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be needed, especially if sulindac doses greater than 400 mg daily are used or if the drug combination is used in patients with renal impairment or other metabolic defects that might increase sulindac blood concentrations.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) NSAIDs may enhance hypoglycemia in diabetic patients via inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which indirectly increases insulin secretion. If NSAIDs are administered or discontinued in patients receiving oral antidiabetic agents, patients should be monitored for hypoglycemia or loss of blood glucose control. No clinically significant interaction between sulindac at daily doses of 400 mg and oral hypoglycemic agents has been observed. Sulindac, its sulfide metabolite, and sulfonylureas are highly bound to protein. Sulindac could displace the sulfonylureas, altering hypoglycemic activity. Careful patient monitoring is recommended to ensure that no change in their diabetes medicine dosage is required. A sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be needed, especially if sulindac doses greater than 400 mg daily are used or if the drug combination is used in patients with renal impairment or other metabolic defects that might increase sulindac blood concentrations.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) NSAIDs may enhance hypoglycemia in diabetic patients via inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which indirectly increases insulin secretion. If NSAIDs are administered or discontinued in patients receiving oral antidiabetic agents, patients should be monitored for hypoglycemia or loss of blood glucose control. No clinically significant interaction between sulindac at daily doses of 400 mg and oral hypoglycemic agents has been observed. Sulindac, its sulfide metabolite, and sulfonylureas are highly bound to protein. Sulindac could displace the sulfonylureas, altering hypoglycemic activity. Careful patient monitoring is recommended to ensure that no change in their diabetes medicine dosage is required. A sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be needed, especially if sulindac doses greater than 400 mg daily are used or if the drug combination is used in patients with renal impairment or other metabolic defects that might increase sulindac blood concentrations.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) NSAIDs may enhance hypoglycemia in diabetic patients via inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which indirectly increases insulin secretion. If NSAIDs are administered or discontinued in patients receiving oral antidiabetic agents, patients should be monitored for hypoglycemia or loss of blood glucose control. No clinically significant interaction between sulindac at daily doses of 400 mg and oral hypoglycemic agents has been observed. Sulindac, its sulfide metabolite, and sulfonylureas are highly bound to protein. Sulindac could displace the sulfonylureas, altering hypoglycemic activity. Careful patient monitoring is recommended to ensure that no change in their diabetes medicine dosage is required. A sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be needed, especially if sulindac doses greater than 400 mg daily are used or if the drug combination is used in patients with renal impairment or other metabolic defects that might increase sulindac blood concentrations.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) NSAIDs may enhance hypoglycemia in diabetic patients via inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which indirectly increases insulin secretion. If NSAIDs are administered or discontinued in patients receiving oral antidiabetic agents, patients should be monitored for hypoglycemia or loss of blood glucose control. No clinically significant interaction between sulindac at daily doses of 400 mg and oral hypoglycemic agents has been observed. Sulindac, its sulfide metabolite, and sulfonylureas are highly bound to protein. Sulindac could displace the sulfonylureas, altering hypoglycemic activity. Careful patient monitoring is recommended to ensure that no change in their diabetes medicine dosage is required. A sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be needed, especially if sulindac doses greater than 400 mg daily are used or if the drug combination is used in patients with renal impairment or other metabolic defects that might increase sulindac blood concentrations.
Gold: (Moderate) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by NSAIDs, concurrent use with other nephrotoxic agents, such as gold compounds, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor renal function carefully during concurrent therapy.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during amlodipine treatment due to the risk for increased amlodipine exposure and adverse reactions. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) NSAIDs may decrease the effect of antihypertensive agents through various mechanisms, including renal and peripheral vasoactive pathways.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for haloperidol if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of haloperidol. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and haloperidol is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) In general, antipsychotics like haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Heparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with celecoxib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with celecoxib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with celecoxib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Concurrent use of phenyl salicylate and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risks of bleeding and nephrotoxicity. Concurrent use of phenyl salicylate and NSAIDs does not produce greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone.
Ibandronate: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of intravenous or oral ibandronate, respectively, and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Acute renal failure has been observed with intravenous ibandronate and concomitant use of other nephrotoxic agents may increase this risk. Additionally, the oral formulations of both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with platelet function such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs); the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with NSAIDs is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia. (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Ibuprofen lysine: (Major) Because ibuprofen lysine exerts similar pharmacologic characteristics to other systemic NSAIDs, including COX-2 inhibitors, additive pharmacodynamic effects, including a potential increase for additive adverse GI effects, may be seen if ibuprofen lysine is used with other NSAIDs. In general, concurrent use of ibuprofen lysine and another NSAID should be avoided.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Coadministration of idelalisib with amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of amlodipine resulting in amlodipine-related adverse events. Consider an amlodipine dose reduction if these agents are administered together and monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as imatinib, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when imatinib is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored.
Imipramine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for imipramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of imipramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and imipramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Indomethacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity as well as the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of NSAIDs in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Iodine; Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Iodixanol: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Iohexol: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Iomeprol: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Ionic Contrast Media: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Iopamidol: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Iopromide: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Ioversol: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with amlodipine may result in increased serum concentrations of amlodipine. Amlodipine is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Isoflurane: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Isosulfan Blue: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have a negative inotropic effect that may be additive to those of itraconazole. In addition, itraconazole may increase amlodipine serum concentrations via inhibition of CYP3A4 with the potential for amlodipine toxicity. Edema has been reported in patients receiving concomitantly itraconazole and amlodipine, therefore, caution is recommended when administering these medications in combination. A dosage reduction of the calcium-channel blocker may be appropriate.
Ivacaftor: (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as celecoxib. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Ivosidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of celecoxib during coadministration of ivosidenib; a celecoxib dose adjustment may be necessary. Celecoxib is a sensitive substrate of CYP2C9; ivosidenib may induce CYP2C9 leading to decreased celecoxib concentrations.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketamine: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Ketoprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ketorolac: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ketorolac with another NSAID is contraindicated. Increased adverse gastrointestinal effects are possible if ketorolac is used with other systemic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including COX-2 inhibitors. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Use lacosamide with caution in patients taking concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction, such as calcium-channel blockers, because of the risk of AV block, bradycardia, or ventricular tachyarrhythmia. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG prior to lacosamide initiation and after treatment has been titrated to steady-state. In addition, monitor patients receiving lacosamide via the intravenous route closely.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Lanreotide: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of bradycardia-inducing drugs (e.g., calcium-channel blockers) may have an additive effect on the reduction of heart rate associated with lanreotide. Adjust the calcium-channel blocker dose if necessary.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if lasmiditan is coadministered with calcium-channel blockers as concurrent use may increase the risk for bradycardia. Lasmiditan has been associated with lowering of heart rate. In a drug interaction study, addition of a single 200 mg dose of lasmiditan to another heart rate lowering drug decreased heart rate by an additional 5 beats per minute.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with oral lefamulin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Leflunomide: (Moderate) In vitro studies indicate that the M1 metabolite of leflunomide inhibits cytochrome P450 2C9, the enzyme responsible for the metabolism of many NSAIDs. Leflunomide altered protein binding and thus, increased the free fraction of ibuprofen by 13% to 50%. The clinical significance of the interactions with NSAIDs is unknown. There was extensive concomitant use of NSAIDs in phase III clinical studies of leflunomide in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and no clinical differential effects were observed. However, because some NSAIDs have been reported to cause hepatotoxic effects, some caution may be warranted in their use with leflunomide.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with lenacapavir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Amlodipine dose reductions may be required during concurrent administration with letermovir; monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema to determine the need for dose adjustment. The magnitude of this interaction may be increased in patients who are also receiving cyclosporine. Administering these drugs together may increase amlodipine concentration and risk for adverse events. Amlodipine is a substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent administration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased amlodipine exposure by 60%; however, another moderate inhibitor did not significantly change amlodipine exposure. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase amlodipine exposure to a greater extent.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Use quinolones and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) concomitantly with caution due to potential increased risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures. NSAIDs in combination with very high doses of quinolones have been shown to provoke convulsions in preclinical studies and postmarketing.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Lisdexamfetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor for neurologic adverse reactions during concomitant use of lithium and calcium channel blockers. Concomitant use may increase the risk of neurologic adverse reactions, such as ataxia, tremors, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and/or tinnitus. (Moderate) Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) use; reduce the lithium dose based on serum lithium concentrations and clinical response. NSAIDs decrease renal blood flow, resulting in decreased renal clearance and increased serum lithium concentrations.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for lofexidine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of lofexidine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and lofexidine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Lomitapide: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lomustine, CCNU: (Major) Due to the bone marrow suppressive and thrombocytopenic effects of lomustine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and amlodipine; concurrent use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions and/or symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing amlodipine. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and ritonavir. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and ritonavir is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Lorlatinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
Losartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and lovastatin against the potential risks. Lovastatin exposure may increase resulting in increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Although FDA-approved labeling for amlodipine or lovastatin do not suggest dose adjustments, guidelines recommend limiting the dose of lovastatin to 20 mg/day if combined with amlodipine. Lovastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the systemic exposure and therapeutic efficacy of amlodipine. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Minor) Although the clinical significance of this interaction is unknown, concurrent use of celecoxib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter celecoxib exposure; caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Celecoxib is a substrate of CYP2C9; in vitro data suggest that lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce and/or inhibit CYP2C9. The net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on CYP2C9-mediated metabolism is not clear, but CYP2C9 substrate exposure may be affected. (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as celecoxib. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the systemic exposure and therapeutic efficacy of amlodipine. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Minor) Although the clinical significance of this interaction is unknown, concurrent use of celecoxib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter celecoxib exposure; caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Celecoxib is a substrate of CYP2C9; in vitro data suggest that lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce and/or inhibit CYP2C9. The net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on CYP2C9-mediated metabolism is not clear, but CYP2C9 substrate exposure may be affected.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with salicylates, such as magnesium salicylate, due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Sulfate; Sodium Sulfate: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Mannitol: (Major) Avoid use of mannitol and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), if possible. If use together is necessary, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs, such as NSAIDs, increases the risk of renal failure after administration of mannitol. NSAIDs may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain.
Maraviroc: (Minor) Use caution if coadministration of maraviroc with amlodipine is necessary, due to a possible increase in maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Monitor for an increase in adverse effects with concomitant use.
Mavacamten: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and mavacamten. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Meclizine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for meclizine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of meclizine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and meclizine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant calcium-channel blocker and melatonin use. Melatonin may impair the efficacy of calcium-channel blockers. In a placebo-controlled study, melatonin evening ingestion led to significant increases in blood pressure (6.5 mmHg systolic and 4.9 mmHg diastolic) and heart rate (3.9 bpm) throughout the day in patients taking a calcium channel blocker Melatonin appeared to antagonize the antihypertensive effects of the calcium channel blocker.
Meloxicam: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Mesalamine, 5-ASA: (Minor) The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of celecoxib is necessary. If celecoxib is discontinued, consider increasing the methadone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Methadone is a CYP2D6 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 inhibitors like celecoxib can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone. If celecoxib is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. (Moderate) Frequently monitor for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary; consider reducing the dose of methadone if clinically appropriate. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the methadone dose if needed. Methadone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like amlodipine can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone. If amlodipine is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations may decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for methamphetamine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of methamphetamine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Methohexital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Methotrexate: (Major) Do not administer nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) before or concomitantly with high doses of methotrexate, such as used in the treatment of osteosarcoma. Concomitant administration of some NSAIDs with high dose methotrexate therapy has been reported to elevate and prolong serum methotrexate concentrations, resulting in deaths from severe hematologic and gastrointestinal toxicity. Use caution when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with lower doses of methotrexate as they have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model and may enhance its toxicity. Despite potential interactions, patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are often receiving concurrent treatment with NSAIDs without apparent problems. However, these doses are lower than those used in psoriasis or malignancy; higher methotrexate doses may lead to unexpected toxicity in combination with NSAIDs. NSAIDs may be continued in patients with RA receiving treatment with methotrexate, although the possibility of increased toxicity has not been fully explored.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for metoclopramide if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of metoclopramide. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and metoclopramide is a CYP2D6 substrate.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Minor) Since celecoxib is metabolized by cytochrome P450 2C9, concurrent administration with metronidazole, which can inhibit this enzyme, may result in increased levels of celecoxib. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for mexiletine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of mexiletine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and mexiletine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Mifepristone significantly increased exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2C8/2C9 in interaction studies. Therefore, when mifepristone is used chronically, as in the treatment of Cushing's syndrome, use caution with coadministered CYP2C8/2C9 substrates, including the NSAIDs. Use the lowest doses of the substrate and patients should be monitored closely for adverse reactions. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with mifepristone is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by milnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking milnacipran and NSAIDs.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
mitoXANTRONE: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of mitoxantrone, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Modafinil: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as modafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Moxifloxacin: (Moderate) Use quinolones and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) concomitantly with caution due to potential increased risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures. NSAIDs in combination with very high doses of quinolones have been shown to provoke convulsions in preclinical studies and postmarketing.
Nabumetone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Nafcillin: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as nafcillin, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of amlodipine. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Naproxen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as nefazodone, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when nefazodone is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored.
Nelarabine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Neomycin: (Minor) It is possible that additive nephrotoxicity may occur in patients who receive NSAIDs concurrently with other nephrotoxic agents, such as aminoglycosides.
Neostigmine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as netupitant, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine; valsartan may be required.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially calcium-channel blockers. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as nilotinib, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine may be required.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and ritonavir. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and ritonavir is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with nirogacestat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Nitisinone: (Major) A dosage adjustment of celecoxib may be necessary when administered with nitisinone as concurrent use may result in increased celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a sensitive CYP2C9 substrate; nitisinone is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concurrent use of celecoxib with another moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor increased celecoxib exposure by 2-fold. FDA-approved labeling for nitisinone recommends reducing the dose of sensitive CYP2C9 substrates by 50% with subsequent dosage adjustments to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for nortriptyline if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of nortriptyline. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and nortriptyline is a sensitive CYP2D6 substrate.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Use quinolones and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) concomitantly with caution due to potential increased risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures. NSAIDs in combination with very high doses of quinolones have been shown to provoke convulsions in preclinical studies and postmarketing.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Olsalazine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function during coadministration of olsalazine and celecoxib. Coadministration may increase the risk for drug-induced nephrotoxicity. Olsalazine is converted to mesalamine in the gastrointestinal tract; nephrotoxicity has been observed during mesalamine treatment.
Omacetaxine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of omacetaxine and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) when the platelet count is less than 50,000 cells/microliter due to an increased risk of bleeding.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Rifabutin may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Amlodipine is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of amlodipine may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently. (Moderate) Celecoxib is metabolized by CYP2C9; oritavancin is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in elevated celecoxib plasma concentrations. If these drugs are administered concurrently, monitor patients for signs of celecoxib toxicity, such as dizziness, stomach upset, or nausea.
Oxaprozin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
OXcarbazepine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as oxcarbazepine, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
PACLitaxel: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of paclitaxel, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and calcium-channel blockers who are susceptible to hypotension.
Pamidronate: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant pamidronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug use due to risk for additive nephrotoxicity.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding.
Pasireotide: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and amlodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of amlodipine. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Pentamidine: (Major) Avoid concurrent or sequential use of pentamidine with celecoxib. Coadministration may increase the risk for drug-induced nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function if coadministration is unavoidable. Celecoxib may enhance the exposure and toxicity of pentamidine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and pentamidine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Pentosan: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Pentostatin: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of pentostatin, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for perphenazine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of perphenazine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and perphenazine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for perphenazine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of perphenazine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and perphenazine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amitriptyline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary; a dose reduction of amitriptyline may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of amitriptyline. Amitriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate and celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pexidartinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and phenytoin. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and phenytoin is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Moderate) Agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of NSAIDs before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable. (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
PHYSostigmine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Pimozide: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for pimozide if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of pimozide. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and pimozide is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) NSAIDs may enhance hypoglycemia in diabetic patients via inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which indirectly increases insulin secretion. If NSAIDs are administered or discontinued in patients receiving oral antidiabetic agents, patients should be monitored for hypoglycemia or loss of blood glucose control. No clinically significant interaction between sulindac at daily doses of 400 mg and oral hypoglycemic agents has been observed. Sulindac, its sulfide metabolite, and sulfonylureas are highly bound to protein. Sulindac could displace the sulfonylureas, altering hypoglycemic activity. Careful patient monitoring is recommended to ensure that no change in their diabetes medicine dosage is required. A sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be needed, especially if sulindac doses greater than 400 mg daily are used or if the drug combination is used in patients with renal impairment or other metabolic defects that might increase sulindac blood concentrations.
Piroxicam: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Platelet Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Ascorbic Acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Polymyxin B: (Major) The chronic coadministration of systemic polymyxins may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when used concurrently. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since Polymyxin B is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may theoretically increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with posaconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Potassium Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Gluconate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
PRALAtrexate: (Major) Renal elimination accounts for approximately 34% of the overall clearance of pralatrexate. Concomitant administration of drugs that undergo substantial renal clearance, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may result in delayed clearance of pralatrexate.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Prazosin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used. The use of alpha-blockers with verapamil can lead to excessive hypotension; In addition, verapamil has been reported to increase the AUC and Cmax of prazosin.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Primidone: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Probenecid: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Procarbazine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of procarbazine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with celecoxib; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and celecoxib with a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Propafenone is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate and celecoxib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Propofol: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Protease inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for protriptyline if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of protriptyline. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and protriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
pyRIDostigmine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased quinidine adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase quinidine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; quinidine is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index. In addition, quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as quinine, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine may be required.
Quinolones: (Moderate) Use quinolones and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) concomitantly with caution due to potential increased risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures. NSAIDs in combination with very high doses of quinolones have been shown to provoke convulsions in preclinical studies and postmarketing.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider during concurrent use of an MAOI and a calcium-channel blocker.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with relacorilant is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) The risk of significant hypotension and/or bradycardia during therapy with remifentanil may be increased in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers due to additive hypotensive effects.
Repotrectinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ribociclib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ribociclib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Rifabutin may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and rifampin. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and rifampin is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. (Moderate) Rifampin is a potent inducer of the cytochrome P450 hepatic enzyme system and can reduce the plasma concentrations and possibly the efficacy of calcium-channel blockers. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with rifapentine is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and rifapentine. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and rifapentine is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Risedronate: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of risedronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone has been associated with orthostatic hypotension and may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Clinically significant hypotension has been observed with concomitant use of risperidone and antihypertensive medications. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and ritonavir. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and ritonavir is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in celecoxib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Salsalate: (Major) Concurrent use of salsalate and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risks of bleeding and nephrotoxicity. Concurrent use of salsalate and NSAIDs does not produce greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Secobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding.
Sevoflurane: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for additive hypotension if amlodipine is administered concurrently with sildenafil, as both agents act independently to reduce blood pressure. When sildenafil 100 mg was co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure (SBP) was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Simvastatin: (Major) Do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 20 mg/day in patients taking amlodipine due to increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on amlodipine, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and simvastatin against the potential risks. Amlodipine increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 1.5-fold.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by calcium-channel blockers. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of results.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of amlodipine. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; velpatasvir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; velpatasvir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with sotorasib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for worsening renal function during concomitant use of sparsentan and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibitors. Concomitant use increases the risk for nephrotoxicity, especially in patients with additional risk factors such as hypovolemia and chronic renal impairment.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant spironolactone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant spironolactone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with St. John's Wort is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and St. John's wort. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and St. John's wort is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Streptomycin: (Moderate) It is possible that additive nephrotoxicity may occur in patients who receive nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) concurrently with other nephrotoxic agents, such as streptomycin.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if amlodipine must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like amlodipine can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If amlodipine is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Monitor for celecoxib-related adverse effects and consider a celecoxib dosage reduction as appropriate based on response if concomitant use with sulfamethoxazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and sulfamethoxazole is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor increased celecoxib overall exposure by 2-fold.
sulfaSALAzine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function during coadministration of sulfasalazine and celecoxib. Coadministration may increase the risk for drug-induced nephrotoxicity.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) NSAIDs may enhance hypoglycemia in diabetic patients via inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which indirectly increases insulin secretion. If NSAIDs are administered or discontinued in patients receiving oral antidiabetic agents, patients should be monitored for hypoglycemia or loss of blood glucose control. No clinically significant interaction between sulindac at daily doses of 400 mg and oral hypoglycemic agents has been observed. Sulindac, its sulfide metabolite, and sulfonylureas are highly bound to protein. Sulindac could displace the sulfonylureas, altering hypoglycemic activity. Careful patient monitoring is recommended to ensure that no change in their diabetes medicine dosage is required. A sulfonylurea dose adjustment may be needed, especially if sulindac doses greater than 400 mg daily are used or if the drug combination is used in patients with renal impairment or other metabolic defects that might increase sulindac blood concentrations.
Sulindac: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for increased tacrolimus adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase tacrolimus plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; tacrolimus is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function during coadministration of tacrolimus and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Coadministration may increase the risk for drug-induced nephrotoxicity.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Telavancin: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Temozolomide: (Major) Myelosuppression, primarily neutropenia and thrombocytopenia, is the dose-limiting toxicity of temozolomide. Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of temozolomide, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Terazosin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as celecoxib. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide and other agents that slow cardiac conduction such as calcium-channel blockers should be used cautiously due to the potential for additive bradycardia.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of thioguanine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of celecoxib and thioridazine is contraindicated due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of thioridazine. Elevated thioridazine concentrations would be expected to augment the prolongation of the QTc interval associated with thioridazine and may increase the risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias, such as torsade de pointes. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and thioridazine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant beta-blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of beta-blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Tobacco: (Major) Advise patients to avoid smoking tobacco while taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Concomitant use of NSAIDs with tobacco smoking may enhance the risk of gastrointestinal side effects, including peptic ulcer and GI bleeding. Patients using tobacco and NSAIDs concurrently should be monitored closely for GI adverse reactions.
Tobramycin: (Moderate) It is possible that additive nephrotoxicity may occur in patients who receive nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) concurrently with other nephrotoxic agents, such as tobramycin.
Tolmetin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with any other NSAID due to the risk of additive serious NSAID toxicities including but not limited to GI bleeding, GI perforation, or peptic ulcers. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for tolterodine-related adverse reactions and consider a dosage reduction of tolterodine if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary. Celecoxib may enhance the systemic exposure and toxicity of tolterodine. In vitro studies indicate that celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Tolterodine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Topiramate: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Torsemide: (Moderate) If celecoxib (an NSAID) and torsemide (a diuretic) are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy; side effects from celecoxib may also increase. The concomitant use of celecoxib, a sensitive substrate of CYP2C9, and torsemide, a CYP2C9 inhibitor, may result in increased plasma concentrations of celecoxib. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDs concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. NSAIDs may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDs have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol, signs of opioid withdrawal, seizures, or serotonin syndrome if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary. If celecoxib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate and celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use of tramadol with CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of tramadol and decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite M1. Since M1 is a more potent mu-opioid agonist, decreased M1 exposure could result in decreased therapeutic effects, and may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol. Increased tramadol exposure can result in increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and increased risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol, signs of opioid withdrawal, seizures, or serotonin syndrome if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary. If celecoxib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate and celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use of tramadol with CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of tramadol and decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite M1. Since M1 is a more potent mu-opioid agonist, decreased M1 exposure could result in decreased therapeutic effects, and may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol. Increased tramadol exposure can result in increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and increased risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with verapamil is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium-channel blockers and tranylcypromine due to the risk of additive hypotension. Potential for this interaction persists for up to 10 days after discontinuation of tranylcypromine (or 4 to 5 half-lives after discontinuation of the calcium-channel blocker). If a medication-free interval is not feasible, initiate therapy at the lowest appropriate dose and monitor blood pressure closely.
traZODone: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by trazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking trazodone concurrently with medications that impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response. (Moderate) NSAIDs may decrease the effect of antihypertensive agents through various mechanisms, including renal and peripheral vasoactive pathways.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including COX-2 inhibitors, may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If celecoxib and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including COX-2 inhibitors, may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If celecoxib and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for trimipramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of trimipramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and trimipramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with tucatinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Urea: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
valACYclovir: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function during coadministration of valacyclovir and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Coadministration may increase the risk for drug-induced nephrotoxicity.
valGANciclovir: (Minor) Concurrent use of nephrotoxic agents, such as NSAIDs, with valganciclovir should be done cautiously to avoid additive nephrotoxicity.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as valproic acid, divalproex sodium, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Vancomycin: (Minor) It is possible that additive nephrotoxicity may occur in patients who receive NSAIDs concurrently with other nephrotoxic agents, including vancomycin.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as amlodipine, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of amlodipine when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by venlafaxine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding when coadministering venlafaxine with NSAIDs.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with verapamil is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with calcium channel blockers is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use with calcium channel blockers could enhance the rate of verteporfin uptake by the vascular endothelium, resulting in enhanced photosensitivity. (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Oxaprozin may additionally worsen photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease platelet aggregation like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with NSAIDs and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially calcium-channel blockers. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Voriconazole: (Major) Isoenzyme CYP2C9 is responsible for the metabolism of many nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Voriconazole is known to be an inhibitor of CYP2C9 and may lead to increased plasma levels of some NSAIDs, such as celecoxib. The clinican should consider introducing the NSAID at the lowest recommended dose in patients receiving voriconazole. Monitor for NSAID-related side effects, such as GI irritation, fluid retention or increased blood pressure, GI bleeding, or renal dysfunction and adjust the dose of the NSAID if needed. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voriconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with amlodipine is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs or symptoms of bleeding during concurrent use of warfarin and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). To minimize the potential for GI bleeding, use the lowest effective NSAID dose for the shortest possible duration. If signs or symptoms of bleeding occur, promptly evaluate and treat. Systemic hematological effects may also occur with the use of topical NSAIDs. NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and may prolong bleeding time in some patients.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Celecoxib is a substrate of the cytochrome P450 2C9 isoenzyme. Coadministration of celecoxib with drugs that are known to inhibit CYP2C9 such as zafirlukast should be done with caution. (Minor) Zafirlukast is a CYP3A4 inhibitor which theoretically may decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.
Zoledronic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant zoledronic acid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug use due to risk for additive nephrotoxicity.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.

acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), alopecia, contact dermatitis, diaphoresis, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, xerosis


Celecoxib is a sulfonamide that can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), which can be fatal. These serious events can occur without warning and in patients without prior known sulfa allergy. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations. Discontinue celecoxib at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. The most common dermatological adverse effect of celecoxib is a rash (unspecified), which occurred in 2.2% of 4,146 patients in clinical trials. Other events that occurred in 0.1% to 1.9% of patients include alopecia, dermatitis, photosensitivity reaction, pruritus, erythematous rash (erythema), maculopapular rash, contact dermatitis, skin disorder, xerosis, and increased diaphoresis. SJS, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, and TEN have been reported through postmarketing observation and in the literature. In addition to an idiosyncratic reaction as an etiology for either SJS or TEN, a hypersensitivity syndrome that consists of fever, rash, and internal organ involvement may occur. The exact mechanism of severe skin reactions to celecoxib, which does not contain an aromatic amine, is unknown but is likely different than the mechanism associated with sulfonamide antibiotics, as these drugs are much more commonly associated with SJS and TEN. Sulfonamide antibiotics have an aromatic amine moiety whereas celecoxib, furosemide, and thiazide diuretics have a sulfonamide component but not an aromatic amine. Further support for a different mechanism of action is obtained from the observation of a lack of cross-sensitivity between sulfamethoxazole and celecoxib in 6 adults. Pruritus and rash (unspecified) were reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in placebo-controlled trials, but the incidence was 1% to 2% in all multiple dose studies. Erythema, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, and diaphoresis occurred in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), flushing, heart failure, hypercholesterolemia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, phlebitis, pulmonary embolism, sinus tachycardia, stroke, syncope, thromboembolism, thrombosis, vasculitis, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia


Celecoxib, like all nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thromboembolism, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. Careful patient selection and use of the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible is recommended. Estimates of increased relative risk range from 10% to 50% or more, based on the drug and dose studied. The risk may increase with increased exposure, as measured in dose or duration. Significant cardiovascular risk has been observed within days to weeks of NSAID initiation. The relative increase in cardiovascular thrombotic events over baseline appears to be similar in patients with or without cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease; however, patients with known cardiovascular disease or risk factors may be at greater risk because of a higher baseline risk of events. Of 4,146 patients who took celecoxib for arthritis, 0.1% to 1.9% had angina pectoris, chest pain (unspecified), coronary artery disorder, hypercholesterolemia, sinus tachycardia, palpitations, or myocardial infarction. Less than 0.1% had congestive heart failure, syncope, ventricular fibrillation, pulmonary embolism, stroke, peripheral gangrene, or thrombo-phlebitis. Unstable angina, cerebral infarction, aortic valve incompetence, coronary artery atherosclerosis, sinus bradycardia, deep vein thrombosis, and ventricular hypertrophy were noted in 0.1% or more to less than 1% of patients who received celecoxib 400 to 800 mg daily for up to 3 years. Vasculitis and deep venous thrombosis have been noted during postmarketing experience. Increased cardiovascular events were noted in celecoxib recipients, compared with placebo, in two 3-year, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter studies designed to investigate whether celecoxib could prevent colorectal adenomas in those with a history of colon polyps. In 1 study, a dose-related increase in the composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or stroke was demonstrated; the composite endpoint was met by 1% (7 of 676 patients) who received placebo, as compared to 2.6% (18 of 683) who received celecoxib 200 mg twice daily and 3.4% (23 of 669) who received celecoxib 400 mg twice daily. Similar numbers of patients in each treatment arm had a history of cardiovascular events (13.7% to 14.8%), a history of hypertension (39.3% to 42.3%), a history of diabetes (9% to 9.8%), were current cigarette smokers (14.3% to 18%), or took an aspirin regimen (30.4% to 31.2%). In a similarly designed study, 1.9% (12 of 628 patients) who received placebo and 2.4% (23 of 933) who received celecoxib 400 mg daily had myocardial infarction, stroke, congestive heart failure, or cardiovascular death. Findings from a meta-analysis of 31 large-scale, randomized controlled trials involving NSAID use in 116,429 patients with more than 115,000 patient-years of follow-up confirm that all NSAIDs are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse effects. The safety profile of compared NSAIDs (celecoxib, diclofenac, etoricoxib, ibuprofen, lumiracoxib, naproxen, and rofecoxib) varied considerably depending on the outcome. The rate ratios for celecoxib compared to placebo were estimated as 1.35 (95% creditability interval, 0.71 to 2.72) for myocardial infarction, 1.12 (0.6 to 1.82) for stroke, 2.07 (0.98 to 4.55) for cardiovascular death, and 1.5 (0.96 to 2.54) for death from any cause; investigators prespecified a rate ratio threshold of 1.3, an increase in risk of at least 30%, as clinically relevant. In a non-placebo controlled safety study, similar cumulative rates of serious cardiovascular thromboembolic adverse events were demonstrated among approximately 8,000 osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis patients treated for 9 months with celecoxib 400 mg twice daily (1.2%), diclofenac 75 mg twice daily (1.4%), or ibuprofen 800 mg 3 times daily (1.1%); the incidence of such events in non-aspirin users at 9 months was less than 1% in each of the 3 treatment groups. While comprehensive data regarding relative cardiovascular safety of any particular NSAID compared to other NSAIDs is not available, celecoxib 100 mg twice daily was shown to be non-inferior to ibuprofen 600 to 800 mg 3 times daily or naproxen 375 to 500 mg twice daily for the composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, nonfatal MI, and nonfatal stroke in osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis adult patients with or at high risk for cardiovascular disease. The intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis followed patients for 30 months, with 8,072 patients randomized to celecoxib, 8,040 randomized to ibuprofen, and 7,969 randomized to naproxen. ITT hazard ratios (95% CI) were 0.93 (0.76 to 1.13) for celecoxib vs. naproxen, 0.86 (0.7 to 1.04) for celecoxib vs. ibuprofen, and 1.08 (0.89 to 1.31) for ibuprofen vs. naproxen (p less than 0.001 for non-inferiority for all celecoxib comparisons). Celecoxib also met non-inferiority criteria in a modified ITT analysis of all patients who received at least 1 dose of study medication and had 1 or more post-baseline visits followed until the earlier of treatment discontinuation plus 30 days, or 43 months. Average 24-hour systolic pressure decreased by 0.3 mmHg in patients receiving celecoxib in a 4-month substudy of 444 patients, while average 24-hour systolic pressures increased by 3.7 mmHg and 1.6 mmHg in patients taking ibuprofen and naproxen, respectively. The relative cardiovascular risks associated with celecoxib doses greater than 200 mg daily are not known. There is no consistent evidence that concomitant use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk for cardiovascular thrombotic events. Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of CV events, and advise them to seek medical help immediately if such signs or symptoms occur. Cardiovascular adverse reactions to amlodipine that are dose-released include palpitations (0.7% to 4.5%) and flushing (0.7% to 4.5%). In addition to being dose-related, palpitations and flushing appear to occur more frequently in women compared to men. Since the peripheral vasodilation induced by amlodipine is gradual in onset, acute hypotension has rarely been reported after oral administration. Nonetheless, caution, as with any other peripheral vasodilator, should be exercised when administering amlodipine to patients at risk for hypotension. Although calcium-channel blockers are effective drugs for treating angina, worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine, particularly in patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease. This may be a result of excessive hypotension, myocardial steal, reflex tachycardia, or a reflex increase in myocardial contractility. Patients with angina should be observed for worsening symptoms when amlodipine therapy is begun. Arrhythmia exacerbation (including ventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation), bradycardia, syncope, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, peripheral ischemia, orthostatic hypotension, sinus tachycardia, and vasculitis have been reported in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience with amlodipine; however, a causal relationship has not been established.


abdominal pain, anorexia, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, eructation, flatulence, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI obstruction, GI perforation, gingival hyperplasia, hemorrhoids, ileus, melena, nausea, peptic ulcer, stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting, xerostomia


NSAIDs can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including GI bleeding, inflammation, ulceration, and GI perforation of the esophagus, stomach, or small or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in individuals treated with NSAIDs. Only 1 in 5 individuals who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of individuals treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2% to 4% of individuals treated for 1 year; however, short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI bleeding during NSAID therapy. Consider monitoring complete blood count (CBC) periodically in individuals on long-term NSAID treatment. If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue the NSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in NSAID-treated individuals, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. The most frequently reported reactions to celecoxib are GI adverse events and may be more frequent with higher doses. Among 4,146 subjects who received celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice daily or 200 mg once daily in clinical trials, the most common GI-related adverse reactions were mild to moderate gastrointestinal complaints and included dyspepsia (8.8%), diarrhea (5.6%), abdominal pain (4.1%), nausea (3.5%), and flatulence (2.2%). Less common adverse GI reactions (0.1% to 1.9%) reported with celecoxib included anorexia, constipation, diverticulitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), hemorrhoids, hiatal hernia, melena, stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting, and xerostomia. Rare (less than 0.1%) GI adverse effects reported with celecoxib therapy (regardless of causality) in premarketing trials included GI obstruction, GI perforation, GI bleeding, colitis with bleeding, and ileus. In subjects who received celecoxib 400 mg twice daily, complicated and symptomatic ulcer rates were 0.78% at 9 months in the CLASS trial, and 2.19% for the subgroup on low-dose aspirin. Subjects 65 years and older had an incidence of 1.4% at 9 months; those on aspirin had an incidence of 3.06%. Celecoxib premarketing clinical trials demonstrate that the incidence of endoscopically observed GI ulceration is lower than that observed for nonselective NSAIDs. Endoscopic trials compared celecoxib (50 to 400 mg twice daily), comparator NSAIDs (naproxen 500 mg twice daily; ibuprofen 800 mg 3 times daily; and diclofenac 75 mg twice daily), and/or placebo over 3 to 6 months in over 4,500 rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis subjects. A statistically lower incidence of endoscopically observed peptic ulcer ranging from 1.5% to 5.9% was reported for celecoxib relative to the 9.6% to 17.6% for the comparator NSAIDs. There was no statistical difference between diclofenac (2.9%) and celecoxib (1.8%). In contrast to the comparator NSAIDs, celecoxib did not alter platelet aggregation or bleeding time. GI adverse reactions reported with amlodipine include abdominal pain (1.6%) and nausea (2.9%). Anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, flatulence, gingival hyperplasia, vomiting, and xerostomia have been reported in more than 0.1% to 1% of amlodipine-treated subjects in clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


dysphagia, esophageal stricture, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, odynophagia, pyrosis (heartburn)


Among 4,146 patients who took celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice daily or 200 mg once daily in clinical trials, 0.1% to 1.9% had dysphagia or esophagitis. Rare (less than 0.1%) GI adverse effects occurring with celecoxib therapy (regardless of causality) in premarketing trials included esophageal perforation. NSAID-induced esophagitis is characterized by sudden onset odynophagia, pyrosis (heartburn), retrosternal pain, and dysphagia. Severe complications such as esophageal ulceration, esophageal stricture, bleeding, and perforation have been reported rarely. Risk factors for NSAID-induced esophageal effects include taking the medication without water and at night. Symptoms usually resolve within days to weeks after stopping the medication. Dysphagia has been reported in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of patients during amlodipine administration; however, a causal relationship has not been clearly established.


cholelithiasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, jaundice, pancreatitis


Elevated hepatic enzymes [alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST)] of 3 or more times the upper limit of normal (ULN) have been reported in approximately 1% of NSAID-treated subjects in clinical trials. In addition, rare, sometimes fatal, cases of severe hepatic injury, including fulminant hepatitis, hepatic necrosis, and hepatic failure have been reported. Elevations of ALT or AST less than 3 times ULN may occur in up to 15% of individuals treated with NSAIDs. Among 4,146 subjects who received celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice daily or 200 mg once daily in clinical trials, abnormal hepatic function, increased alkaline phosphatase, and elevated hepatic enzymes were reported in 0.1% to 1.9% of subjects. In controlled clinical trials of celecoxib, the incidence of borderline elevated hepatic enzymes (1.2 to less than 3 times the upper limit of normal) was 6% for celecoxib and 5% for placebo, and approximately 0.2% of subjects taking celecoxib and 0.3% of subjects taking placebo had notable elevations of ALT and AST (approximately 3 or more times the upper limit of normal). Pancreatitis and cholelithiasis occurred in less than 0.1% of subjects during clinical trials. Additionally, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, and jaundice have been reported with celecoxib in postmarketing. If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue the NSAID immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the individual. Consider monitoring a chemistry profile periodically in individuals on long-term NSAID treatment. Pancreatitis has been reported with amlodipine in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials. In postmarketing experience with amlodipine, jaundice and elevated hepatic enzymes (mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis) in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization have been reported.


anemia, ecchymosis, epistaxis, intracranial bleeding


Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated individuals. This may be related to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. NSAIDs may increase the risk of bleeding events. If an individual treated with an NSAID has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. Consider monitoring complete blood count (CBC) periodically in individuals on long-term NSAID treatment. In controlled clinical trials, the incidence of anemia was 0.6% with celecoxib and 0.4% with placebo. Among 4,146 subjects who received celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice daily or 200 mg once daily in clinical trials, anemia, ecchymosis, epistaxis, and thrombocythemia occurred in 0.1% to 1.9% of subjects. Hemoglobin decreases more than 2 g/dL were reported in 0.5% of subjects receiving celecoxib 400 mg twice daily. Fatal intracranial bleeding has been reported rarely (less than 0.1%), but the causality to celecoxib has not been established. Conjunctival hemorrhage was noted in 0.1% to less than 1% of subjects who received celecoxib. Celecoxib does not generally affect platelet counts, prothrombin time (PT), or partial thromboplastin time (PTT), and does not appear to inhibit platelet aggregation at indicated dosages. In premarketing studies of platelet dysfunction, celecoxib at single doses up to 800 mg and multiple doses of 600 mg twice daily for up to 7 days duration did not affect platelet aggregation and bleeding time. Epistaxis (more than 0.1% to less than 1%) has been reported with amlodipine in clinical trials.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, urticaria


Anaphylactoid reactions and angioedema have been observed in association with celecoxib during postmarketing surveillance. Anaphylactoid reactions occurred in patients without known prior exposure to celecoxib. Among 4,146 patients who took celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice daily or 200 mg once daily in clinical trials, the following adverse events occurred at a 0.1% to 1.9% incidence: allergic reaction, face edema, urticaria, and/or bronchospasm. Patients with hypersensitivity to salicylates (aspirin triad), other NSAIDs, or sulfonamides may be at higher risk for allergic reactions to celecoxib. Celecoxib is not recommended for patients with the aspirin triad. Allergic reactions to celecoxib were reported in 33% of patients tested who had previous cutaneous reactions to other NSAIDs. Angioedema and other allergic reactions were reported in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience.


cystitis, dysuria, edema, hematuria, hyperkalemia, hypernatremia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, increased urinary frequency, interstitial nephritis, nephrolithiasis, nocturia, peripheral edema, proteinuria, renal failure (unspecified), renal papillary necrosis, weight gain


Long-term use of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Albuminuria, cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, increased urinary frequency, increased BUN, increased creatinine, increased nonprotein nitrogen, and renal calculus (nephrolithiasis) have been reported with celecoxib in 0.1% to 1.9% of subjects, and acute renal failure (unspecified) occurred in less than 0.1% of subjects in clinical trials. Hematuria, increased blood uric acid, proteinuria, and abnormal urine analysis have been reported with celecoxib among abnormal laboratory tests in 3% to 11% of subjects in clinical trials. Additionally, interstitial nephritis has been reported with celecoxib in postmarketing. Generalized edema, weight gain, and facial edema were noted in 0.1% to 1.9% of subjects who received 100 to 200 mg twice daily or 200 mg once daily of celecoxib, and peripheral edema was observed in 2.1%. In the CLASS study, the Kaplan-Meier cumulative rates at 9 months of peripheral edema in subjects on celecoxib 400 mg twice daily were 4.5%. Hyperkalemia and increases in serum potassium concentration have been reported with the use of NSAIDs. In individuals with normal renal function, increases in potassium have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. In the long-term polyp prevention studies, hyperkalemia and hypernatremia occurred in at least 0.1% but less than 1% of subjects. Hypokalemia occurred in 0.1% to 1.9% of subjects who received celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice daily or 200 mg once daily. Hyponatremia has been reported during postmarketing experience. Consider monitoring a chemistry profile periodically in individuals on long-term NSAID treatment. The most common adverse reaction to amlodipine is edema which occurs in a dose-related manner; in the CAMELOT and PREVENT studies, the most frequently reported adverse event was peripheral edema, occurring in 32.4% of amlodipine-treated subjects in CAMELOT and 13.6% in PREVENT. Edema (1.8% to 14.6%) was amlodipine dose-related and appears to occur more frequently in women compared to men. Increased urinary frequency, micturition disorder, nocturia, and weight gain occurred in more than 0.1% to 1% of subjects in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


hypertension


Celecoxib may cause new-onset hypertension or aggravate existing hypertension; monitor blood pressure carefully during therapy. Aggravated hypertension occurred in 0.1% to 1.9% of patients. The rate of hypertension from the CLASS trial in celecoxib-treated patients was 2.4%. Both diclofenac 75 mg twice daily and celecoxib 200 mg once daily raised the systolic and diastolic blood pressures of Hispanic or African American patients with normal renal function who received each drug in a randomized, crossover fashion after stabilization of their blood pressure with trandolapril, hydrochlorothiazide, and clonidine, if necessary. During the study, no antihypertensive drug dosage changes or additions were allowed. Although not a prespecified outcome measure, the mean increases in systolic pressure between the hours of 11 A.M. and 4 P.M. were 4.16 +/- 1.84 mmHg and 3.6 +/- 0.04 mmHg with celecoxib and diclofenac, respectively. The respective mean increases in diastolic pressure were 4.32 +/- 0.89 mmHg and 2 +/- 0.89 mmHg. The morning dose of each drug was given between the hours of 7 and 9. Receipt of celecoxib did not affect the mean systolic blood pressure over 24 hours (128 +/- 11 mmHg at baseline to 129 +/- 9 mmHg after 4 weeks of celecoxib). Conversely, the mean systolic blood pressure over 24 hours went from 130 +/- 14 mmHg at baseline to 134 +/- 15 mmHg after 4 weeks of diclofenac 75 mg twice daily. Similar results of each treatment on diastolic blood pressure were found. Thus, NSAID drug administration frequency and timing of blood pressure measurement are important considerations. In another study, the mean change from baseline in average 24-hour systolic and diastolic blood pressure was -0.1 +/- 0.6 to 1 mmHg after 6 weeks of celecoxib 200 mg once daily in adults (76% White, 14% Black) with stable hypertension (systolic less than 150 mmHg) and normal renal function. Blood pressure was measured every 20 minutes during 24-hour ambulatory monitoring, and no antihypertensive drug changes were allowed (all patients took at least an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor or an angiotensin II receptor blocker). Similar findings were obtained when blood pressure was measured in a clinic between 7 and 11 in the morning. Of the 114 patients, an increase in the systolic blood pressure of 0 to 10 mmHg occurred in 32%, an increase of 10 to 20 mmHg occurred in 14%, and an increase of more than 20 mmHg occurred in 3%. Furthermore, of 68 patients who had a baseline ambulatory systolic blood pressure less than 135 mmHg, 11 had a reading of 135 mmHg or higher at week 6. Monitoring of the patient's fluid status, serum creatinine, and blood urea nitrogen concentrations is recommended. Closely monitor blood pressure during celecoxib initiation and throughout the therapy course.


back pain, headache, migraine


Among 4,146 adults who received celecoxib, 2.8% had back pain, 15.8% had headache, and 0.1% to 1.9% had migraine. Pain and peripheral pain were noted in 0.1% to 1.9% of adults who received celecoxib. Overuse of celecoxib by headache-prone patients frequently produces drug-induced rebound headache accompanied by dependence on symptomatic medication, tolerance (refractoriness to prophylactic medication), and withdrawal symptoms. In this case, overuse of celecoxib (i.e., simple analgesic) has been defined as taking 3 or more doses per day more often than 5 days per week. The frequency of use may be more important than the dose. Features of a rebound headache include morning headache, end-of-dosing interval headache, or headache improvement with discontinuation of overused medication. Stopping the symptomatic medication may result in a period of increased headache and then headache improvement. Analgesic overuse may be responsible for the transformation of episodic migraine or episodic tension headache into daily headache and may perpetuate the syndrome. Back pain and pain occurred in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of patients in amlodipine controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia


Thrombocytopenia was noted in less than 0.1% of patients who received celecoxib, and causality was not evaluated. Agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, pancytopenia, and leukopenia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance. Adverse reactions reported in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience include leukopenia, purpura, and thrombocytopenia.


aseptic meningitis


Aseptic meningitis has been reported during the postmarketing period of celecoxib. Ibuprofen has been the most common NSAID implicated in this adverse reaction; however, cases have been reported with other NSAIDs. Aseptic meningitis from 1 NSAID does not preclude use of another NSAID; most patients can be treated with another drug without incident. However, a patient with Sjogren's syndrome experienced aseptic meningitis after receipt of naproxen, ibuprofen, and rofecoxib at different times; aseptic meningitis developed about a week after each drug exposure, and the symptoms abated roughly 2 days after each drug cessation. The occurrence of aseptic meningitis is not related to NSAID chemical class or prostaglandin inhibition. A Type III or IV immunological hypersensitivity reaction is the proposed mechanism of action. Drug-induced aseptic meningitis usually occurs shortly after drug initiation but can occur after years of drug usage. Although NSAID-induced aseptic meningitis is primarily reported in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), healthy patients and patients with other disease states such as ankylosing spondylitis, connective tissue disease, osteoarthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis have developed NSAID-induced aseptic meningitis. Symptoms of aseptic meningitis include confusion, drowsiness, general feeling of illness, severe headache, nausea, nuchal rigidity, and photophobia. As aseptic meningitis is a diagnosis of exclusion, the suspected drug should be discontinued and not restarted unless a rechallenge is desired.


conjunctivitis, diplopia, hearing loss, ocular pain, tinnitus, visual impairment


Tinnitus and hearing loss (deafness) occurred with celecoxib (0.1% to 1.9%) during premarketing clinical trials. Labyrinthitis, conjunctival hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters were noted in 0.1% or more to less than 1% of patients who received celecoxib. Conjunctivitis, visual impairment (abnormal vision), diplopia, ocular pain, and tinnitus occurred in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of patients in amlodipine controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


cyanosis, methemoglobinemia


Celecoxib is chemically designated as a benzene sulfonamide. Methemoglobinemia is known to be associated with sulfonamides and with benzene derivatives. A case report of methemoglobinemia due to celecoxib has been reported. A healthy man developed a severe headache and progressive confusion and agitation while taking celecoxib 100 mg twice daily for osteoarthritis; celecoxib had been started 1 month prior to the development of symptoms. Due to a serum methemoglobin fraction of 9% (reference range 0 to 0.2) on admission, the patient received methylene blue treatment. Within 5 minutes, his cyanosis significantly improved. Repeat administration of methylene blue was needed 4 hours later. The serum methemoglobin concentrations decreased to 0.7% and 0.4% after the first and second methylene blue treatments, respectively. Celecoxib was discontinued and the patient received methylene blue (100 mg PO 3 times daily), ascorbic acid (300 mg PO 3 times daily), and riboflavin (20 mg PO once daily) for 3 days. He was discharged and remained symptom-free. Although a rechallenge was not feasible, celecoxib as the cause of the event was thought probable via use of the Naranjo probability scale.


anosmia, ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, tremor, vertigo


In clinical trials, dizziness occurred in 2% of celecoxib adult recipients. Hypertonia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, drowsiness, and vertigo occurred in 0.1% to 1.9% of adults. Ataxia was noted in less than 0.1% of patients; ageusia and anosmia were noted during postmarketing experience. Dose-related dizziness was reported in 1.1% to 3.4% of amlodipine-treated patients while drowsiness was reported in 1.3% to 1.6%. Hypoesthesia, peripheral neuropathy, postural dizziness, paresthesias, tremor, and vertigo were reported in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; however, a causal relationship has not been established.


anxiety, depression, insomnia, nightmares


Among 4,146 celecoxib recipients in premarketing clinical trials, 2.3% had insomnia. Psychiatric events that occurred in 0.1% to 1.9% of patients who received celecoxib 200 to 400 mg/day included anxiety, depression, and nervousness. Suicide was noted in less than 0.1% of patients. Insomnia, nervousness or anxiety, depression, abnormal dreams (e.g. nightmares), and depersonalization have been reported in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; however, a causal relationship has not been established. Based on postmarketing reports, there is a possible association between amlodipine and extrapyramidal disorder.


cough, dyspnea, infection, laryngitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis


Among 4,146 adult celecoxib recipients, 2.3% had pharyngitis, 2% had rhinitis, 5% had sinusitis, and 8.1% had upper respiratory infection. Laryngitis, cough, dyspnea, bronchitis, influenza-like symptoms, cellulitis, and pneumonia were noted in 0.1% to 1.9% of patients. Sepsis and sudden death were noted in less than 0.1% of patients. Dyspnea was reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in placebo-controlled trials, but the incidence was 1% to 2% in all multiple dose studies.


arthralgia, muscle cramps, myalgia, synovitis


Arthralgia, arthrosis, myalgia, synovitis, increased creatine phosphokinase, leg muscle cramps, and tendinitis occurred in 0.1% to 1.9% of adults who received celecoxib. Muscle cramps were reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in placebo-controlled trials, but the incidence was 1% to 2% in all multiple dose studies. Arthralgia, arthrosis, and myalgia occurred in more than 0.1% to 1% of patients in amlodipine controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


asthenia, chills, fatigue, fever, gynecomastia, hot flashes, malaise, weight loss


Hot flashes and fever were noted in 0.1% to 1.9% of adults who received celecoxib. Decreased blood testosterone, ovarian cysts, and cysts (unspecified) were noted in 0.1% or more to less than 1% of patients. Fatigue (4.5%) and asthenia (less than 2%) were reported during trials of amlodipine. Hot flashes, malaise, rigors (chills), and weight loss occurred in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established. During postmarketing surveillance, gynecomastia was infrequently reported during amlodipine therapy; however, a causal relationship is uncertain.


hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, polydipsia


Hyperglycemia was noted in 0.1% to 1.9% of celecoxib recipients, whereas hypoglycemia was noted in less than 0.1%. Hyperglycemia and thirst (polydipsia) occurred in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of patients in amlodipine controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


impotence (erectile dysfunction), infertility, libido decrease


NSAIDs, such as celecoxib, may delay or prevent prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies of women treated with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in women who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation. Although the incidence of sexual dysfunction (e.g., impotence (erectile dysfunction) and libido decrease) in males was less than 1% in placebo-controlled trials, it was increased to 1% to 2% of males in all multiple dose studies with amlodipine. Sexual dysfunction was reported in more than 0.1% to less than 1% of females in amlodipine controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience with amlodipine.


diagnostic test interference


The pharmacological activity of NSAIDs in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may result in diagnostic test interference by diminishing the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting infection.


Description

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Amlodipine; celecoxib is an oral combination of a calcium channel blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), indicated for patients for whom treatment with amlodipine for hypertension and celecoxib for osteoarthritis are appropriate. Amlodipine; celecoxib is inappropriate for short-term or intermittent treatment or for any condition other than hypertension in patients taking celecoxib. Celecoxib, like all nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may exacerbate heart failure and hypertension and may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke as well as gastrointestinal adverse effects including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines. Careful patient selection and use of the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration are recommended. If analgesic therapy is no longer needed, amlodipine; celecoxib may be discontinued for alternative antihypertensive monotherapy, such as amlodipine monotherapy.

Mechanism Of Action

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Amlodipine: Amlodipine inhibits the influx of extracellular calcium across the myocardial and vascular smooth muscle cell membranes. Serum calcium concentrations remain unchanged. Amlodipine inhibits this influx, and the resultant decrease in intracellular calcium inhibits the contractile processes of the myocardial smooth muscle cells, resulting in dilation of the coronary and systemic arteries. As with other calcium-channel blockers of the dihyrodpyridine class, amlodipine exerts its effects mainly on arteriolar vasculature. It has no significant effect on sinus node function or cardiac conduction, nor does it possess negative inotropic effects at clinical doses. Because it has a gradual onset, reflex tachycardia does not occur, a side effect that is common with other peripheral vasodilators. Amlodipine therapy usually does not affect hemodynamic parameters in patients with normal ventricular function.
Celecoxib: Celecoxib inhibits prostaglandin synthesis, primarily by inhibiting cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) resulting in analgesic, antipyretic, and anti-inflammatory pharmacologic effects. Prostaglandins are mediators of inflammation, sensitize afferent nerves, and potentiate the action of bradykinin in inducing pain. Celecoxib may decrease prostaglandins in peripheral tissues.


Pharmacokinetics

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Amlodipine; celecoxib is administered orally. Both amlodipine and celecoxib are metabolized in the liver by cytochrome P450 isoenzymes.
 
Amlodipine: Amlodipine is approximately 93% bound to plasma proteins. Amlodipine is extensively metabolized to inactive compounds by the liver with 10% of the parent compound and 60% of the inactive metabolites excreted in the urine. The terminal half-life is about 30 to 50 hours. Steady-state plasma concentrations of amlodipine are reached after 7 to 8 days of consecutive daily dosing.
 
Celecoxib: Celecoxib is widely distributed and highly bound to plasma proteins (approximately 97%), primarily to albumin, and to a lesser extent, alpha-1-acid glycoprotein. Celecoxib is not preferentially bound to red blood cells. The apparent volume of distribution at steady state is about 400 L. Celecoxib metabolism is primarily mediated via CYP2C9. Three inactive metabolites, a primary alcohol, the corresponding carboxylic acid, and its glucuronide conjugate, have been identified in human plasma. Celecoxib is eliminated predominantly by hepatic metabolism with less than 3% of unchanged drug recovered in the urine and feces. About 57% of the total dose was excreted in the feces and 27% recovered in the urine; the carboxylic acid metabolite is the primary metabolite in both urine and feces. The apparent plasma clearance is about 500 mL/minute. The mean effective half-life is 11.2 hours under fasted conditions. The low solubility of the drug prolongs the absorption process, making terminal half-life determinations variable.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C9, CYP3A4
Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate, and its metabolism may be affected by CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers. Coadministration of erythromycin in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine systemic exposure; however, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase amlodipine plasma concentrations to a greater extent. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and inhibitor (in vivo). Amlodipine; celecoxib use is not recommended in patients who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route


Amlodipine: After oral administration, amlodipine peak plasma concentrations are achieved between 6 to 12 hours. Oral bioavailability is estimated to be 64% to 90%; amlodipine bioavailability is not altered by food.
 
Celecoxib: Peak plasma concentrations of celecoxib occur approximately 3 hours after an oral dose. Both celecoxib peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) and area under the curve (AUC) are roughly dose proportional up to 200 mg twice daily. At higher doses and under fasting conditions, there are less proportional increases in celecoxib Cmax and AUC, which is thought to be due to the low aqueous solubility of the drug. Absolute bioavailability studies have not been conducted. When celecoxib capsules are taken with a high fat meal, peak plasma concentrations are delayed for about 1 to 2 hours with an increase in total absorption (AUC) of 10% to 20%.


Hepatic Impairment


Amlodipine: Amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver; clearance is decreased in patients with hepatic impairment. In these patients, the plasma elimination half-life is prolonged (56 hours) and the AUC is increased by 40 to 60%.
 
Celecoxib: In mild (Child-Pugh Class A) and moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment, steady-state celecoxib AUC is increased about 40% and 180%, respectively, above that seen in healthy subjects. Patients with severe hepatic impairment have not been studied.


Renal Impairment


Amlodipine: The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not significantly impacted by renal impairment.
 
Celecoxib: Celecoxib AUC was approximately 40% lower in patients with chronic renal insufficiency (GFR 35 to 60 mL/minute) than in subjects with normal renal function. No significant relationship was found between GFR and celecoxib clearance. Patients with severe renal insufficiency have not been studied.


Geriatric


Amlodipine: The elimination half-life of a single amlodipine 5 mg oral dose is prolonged (48 vs. 30 to 50 hours) in the elderly. Geriatric patients have decreased clearance of amlodipine resulting in an AUC increase of approximately 40% to 60%.
 
Celecoxib: Elderly subjects (over 65 years) have a 40% higher celecoxib Cmax and a 50% higher AUC compared to young subjects. In elderly females, celecoxib Cmax and AUC are higher than those for elderly males, but these increases are predominantly due to lower body weight in elderly females.


Gender Differences


Celecoxib: In elderly females, celecoxib Cmax and AUC are higher than those for elderly males, but these increases are predominantly due to lower body weight in elderly females.


Ethnic Differences


Celecoxib: A meta-analysis of pharmacokinetics studies suggests an approximately 40% higher AUC of celecoxib in Black patients compared to White patients. The cause and clinical significance of this finding is unknown.


Administration

NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


May be administered with or without food.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

10 mg/200 mg per day PO.

Geriatric

10 mg/200 mg per day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Not recommended for use in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment. In patients with mild hepatic impairment, begin treatment with 2.5 mg/200 mg PO once daily.

Renal Impairment

Not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment.

© 2026 Elsevier