=== Atidarsagene Autotemcel — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5520)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Atidarsagene autotemcel is an intravenous autologous hematopoietic stem cell-based gene therapy indicated for pediatric patients with pre-symptomatic late infantile (PSLI), pre-symptomatic early juvenile (PSEJ), or early symptomatic early juvenile (ESEJ) metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthenia, fever, hypotonia, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sepsis, bullous rash, maculopapular rash, rash

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. The safety and effectiveness of vaccination during or after treatment with atidarsagene autotemcel has not been studied.

ATIDARSAGENE AUTOTEMCEL

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Lenmeldy

Indication Specific Dosing


Atidarsagene autotemcel is a single dose for infusion containing CD34 positive cells in 1 to 8 infusion bags.
Allow a minimum of 24 hours after completion of myeloablative conditioning before atidarsagene autotemcel infusion.


For the treatment of metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD), including pre-symptomatic late infantile (PSLI), pre-symptomatic early juvenile (PSEJ), or early symptomatic early juvenile (ESEJ)

For the treatment of pre-symptomatic late infantile MLD
Intravenous dosage
Infants, Children, and Adolescents


4.2 x 106 to 30 x 106 CD34 positive cells/kg. The dose is calculated based on patient's weight at the time of infusion using the information provided on the Lot Information Sheet.


For the treatment of pre-symptomatic early juvenile MLD
Intravenous dosage
Infants, Children, and Adolescents


9 x 106 to 30 x 106 CD34 positive cells/kg. The dose is calculated based on patient's weight at the time of infusion using the information provided on the Lot Information Sheet.


For the treatment of early symptomatic early juvenile MLD
Intravenous dosage
Infants, Children, and Adolescents


6.6 x 106 to 30 x 106 CD34 positive cells/kg. The dose is calculated based on patient's weight at the time of infusion using the information provided on the Lot Information Sheet.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

The safety and effectiveness of vaccination during or after treatment with atidarsagene autotemcel has not been studied. Vaccination is not recommended for at least 6 weeks prior to the start of myeloablative conditioning, and until hematological recovery after treatment with atidarsagene autotemcel therapy. When possible, administer childhood vaccinations prior to myeloablative conditioning for atidarsagene autotemcel.

blood, organ, tissue, or cell donor


After treatment with atidarsagene autotemcel, advise patients to avoid becoming a blood, organ, tissue, or cell donor.


hepatitis C infection, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection


Atidarsagene autotemcel has not been studied in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection (HIV-1, HIV-2), human T-lymphotrophic virus (HTLV-1, HTLV-2), hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C infection (HCV), or mycoplasma infection. Perform screening for HIV-1, HIV-2, HTLV-1, HTLV-2, HBV, HCV, cytomegalovirus (CMV), and mycoplasma infection prior to collection of cells for manufacturing. Patients must have negative serology tests to ensure acceptance of apheresis material for atidarsagene autotemcel manufacturing. Patients should not take prophylactic HIV anti-retroviral medications for at least one month prior to mobilization or for the duration of time needed for the elimination of the medications. Anti-retroviral mediations may interfere with the manufacturing of atidarsagene autotemcel. Atidarsagene autotemcel treatment should be delayed until confirmation of a negative test for HIV if a patient requires anti-retrovirals for prophylaxis.


pregnancy


There are no available data on the use of atidarsagene autotemcel during pregnancy. Animal reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have not been conducted. Do not administer atidarsagene autotemcel during pregnancy because of the risk associated with myeloablative conditioning. Pregnancy after aitdarsagene autotemcel should be discussed with the treating physician.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with atidarsagene autotemcel. Verify negative status prior to the start of mobilization and re-confirm prior to conditioning procedures and before administration of atidarsagene autotemcel. Advise people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others to use effective contraception from the start of mobilization through at least 6 months after the administration of atidarsagene autotemcel. There are no data on the effects of atidarsagene autotemcel on fertility; however, myeloablative conditioning may impair fertility in people of reproductive potential. Inform patients of the option to cryopreserve semen or ova before treatment, if appropriate.


breast-feeding


There are no data on the presence of atidarsagene autotemcel in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effect on milk production. Due to potential risks associated with myeloablative conditioning, counsel lactating patients to avoid breast-feeding during conditioning. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition. Breast-feeding after atidarsagene autotemcel infusion should be discussed with the treating physician. Children receiving breast milk may continue to do so throughout their treatment under the advice of their treating physician.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no available data on the use of atidarsagene autotemcel during pregnancy. Animal reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have not been conducted. Do not administer atidarsagene autotemcel during pregnancy because of the risk associated with myeloablative conditioning. Pregnancy after aitdarsagene autotemcel should be discussed with the treating physician.


Interactions

Abacavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Antiretrovirals: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Cabotegravir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Dolutegravir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Doravirine: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Emtricitabine: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Enfuvirtide: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Ibalizumab: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Maraviroc: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Nevirapine: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Raltegravir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.


Adverse Reaction
anemia, neutropenia


Prolonged bone marrow suppression/cytopenias (e.g., febrile neutropenia and thrombocytopenia) resulting in bleeding or infection have been reported after atidarsagene autotemcel therapy. Febrile neutropenia (85%; grade 3 or higher 82%) and neutropenia (28%; grade 3 event 21%) were reported in pediatric patients receiving atidarsagene autotemcel during clinical trials. Three children (8%) developed anemia, 1 of which was a Grade 3 event. Monitor for signs and symptoms of febrile neutropenia and treat with broad-spectrum antibiotics, fluids, and other supportive care as indicated. There is a potential risk of neutrophil engraftment failure with atidarsagene autotemcel infusion. No cases of neutrophil engraftment failure have been reported. Neutrophil engraftment failure is defined as failure to achieve 3 consecutive absolute neutrophil counts (ANC) 500 cells/microliter or greater obtained on different days by Day 60 after atidarsagene autotemcel infusion. Monitor neutrophil counts until engraftment has been achieved. If neutrophil engraftment fails, provide rescue treatment with an unmanipulated back-up collection of CD34+ cells. Delayed platelet engraftment has been observed with atidarsagene autotemcel treatment. Bleeding risk is increased prior to platelet engraftment and may continue after engraftment in patients with prolonged thrombocytopenia. In clinical trials, 10% of pediatric patients have delayed platelet engraftment after day 60. Support with platelets according to best clinical practice. Inform patients of the risk of bleeding until platelet recovery has been achieved. Monitor patients for thrombocytopenia and bleeding.


stomatitis


Stomatitis (77%; grade 3 or higher 74%) was reported in pediatric patients receiving atidarsagene autotemcel during clinical trials.


asthenia, dysphagia, fever, hypotonia


Fever (21%; grade 3 or higher 3%) was reported in pediatric patients receiving atidarsagene autotemcel during clinical trials. One pediatric patient developed encephalitis with neurological deterioration, asthenia, hypotonia, cognitive and behavioral problems, vomiting, and dysphagia 1 month after treatment. The patient was afebrile, blood and CSF cultures were negative for bacterial infection, a large viral panel was negative, and all laboratory values were normal. The etiology of this event is not clear, but attribution to atidarsagene autotemcel cannot be ruled out. No other events related to encephalitis have been reported. Monitor patients for signs or symptoms of encephalitis after atidarsagene autotemcel treatment.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatomegaly


Hepatomegaly (18%), elevated hepatic enzymes (23%; grade 3 event 8%), and elevated concentrations of D-dimer greater than 4.2 nmol/L (67%) were reported in pediatric patients receiving atidarsagene autotemcel during clinical trials. Abnormal D-dimer values up to 109.5 nmol/L were identified at time points from Day 21 to Year 7 after atidarsagene autotemcel infusion, with no pattern identified. One patient reported a Grade 3 event of elevated alanine and aspartate transaminases which met the definition of Hy's Law on day 14 after atidarsagene autotemcel infusion and resolved without treatment after 9 months. Two patients reported a Grade 3 elevation in liver enzymes and 1 child reported a Grade 1 elevation in liver enzymes. All events resolved without treatment and were considered related to conditioning.


infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sepsis


Severe grade 3 infection occurred in 39% of all pediatric patients between the start of conditioning and within 1 year after atidarsagene autotemcel treatment. Device related infections, including bacterial sepsis, catheter site cellulitis, catheter site infection, sepsis, and vascular device infection, occurred in 31% (grade 3 or higher 18%) of patients. Gastroenteritis/enteritis (21%; grade 3 or higher 8%), respiratory tract infections (54%; grade 3 or higher 8%), including bronchitis, nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis, pneumonia, rhinitis, tonsillitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and upper respiratory fungal infection, and other viral infections (28%; grade 3 or higher 5%), such as adenovirus infection, cytomegalovirus infection or viremia, hand-foot-and-mouth disease, Herpes zoster, and SARS Cov-2-test positive, were reported in pediatric patients receiving atidarsagene autotemcel during clinical trials. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infection and manage with antimicrobials as medically indicated.


bullous rash, maculopapular rash, rash


Rash, including dermatitis, bullous rash, erythematous rash, drug eruption, and maculopapular rash, occurred in 33% (grade 3 or higher 8%) of pediatric patients receiving atidarsagene autotemcel during clinical trials.


thrombosis


One pediatric patient with presymptomatic early juvenile (PSEJ) MLD died after a left hemisphere cerebral infarction secondary to a thrombotic event approximately 1 year after treatment with atidarsagene autotemcel. Prior to the cerebral infarction, the patient's D-dimer was elevated (82 nmol/L) and liver enzymes were slightly elevated. The etiology of the cerebral infarction was unclear but atidarsagene autotemcel use cannot be ruled out. No other events related to cerebral infarction have been reported during the clinical development of atidarsagene autotemcel. Some patients received antithrombotic prophylaxis during clinical trials. Evaluate the risk factors for thrombosis or thromboembolism prior to and after administration of atidarsagene autotemcel. Treatment with atidarsagene autotemcel may increase the risk of thrombosis and thromboembolic events. Consider prophylaxis with antithrombotic agents prior to treatment.


antibody formation


Anti-ARSA antibody formation (AAA) was reported in 6 out of 39 pediatric patients. Five of these events resolved between day 45 and 368. One event was reported as ongoing. One patient declined ARSA concentrations in the setting of AAA, but the impact on efficacy is unknown as the patient is still in the pre-symptomatic phase of the disease. Four children received treatment with rituximab. There is insufficient information to characterize the impact of AAA on ARSA activity on clinical efficacy or safety.


anaphylactoid reactions


Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions, may occur with atidarsagene autotemcel infusion due to the dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) component. Hypersensitivity can occur in patients with or without prior exposure to DMSO. During clinical trials, no cases of hypersensitivity have been reported.


new primary hematologic malignancy, new primary malignancy


A new primary malignancy may occur in patients treated with atidarsagene autotemcel. No cases of insertional oncogenesis have been reported during clinical trials. Individuals receiving atidarsagene autotemcel may develop a new primary hematologic malignancy and require lifelong monitoring. Conduct annual complete blood counts with differential and perform integration site analysis as clinically indicated for at least 15 years after treatment. If a new primary malignancy occurs, contact Orchard Therapeutics at 1-888-878-0185 for reporting and to obtain instructions on collection of samples for testing.


laboratory test interference


Atidarsagene autotemcel can cause laboratory test interference. Individuals receiving therapy are likely to test positive by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays for HIV due to LVV provirus insertion resulting in a false-positive test for HIV. Patients receiving atidarsagene autotemcel should not be screened for HIV infection using a PCR-based assay.


veno-occlusive disease


Three children treated in clinical trials with atidarsagene autotemcel developed veno-occlusive disease (VOD). One child had a Grade 4 serious adverse event (SAE) and 2 children had Grade 3 adverse events. None of these events met Hy's Law criteria for drug induced liver injury. Consider prophylaxis for veno-occlusive disease (VOD) with antithrombotic agents based on risk factors for VOD and best clinical practice. Monitor children for signs and symptoms of VOD including liver function tests during the first month after atidarsagene autotemcel infusion.


Description

Atidarsagene autotemcel is an intravenous autologous hematopoietic stem cell-based gene therapy indicated for pediatric patients with pre-symptomatic late infantile (PSLI), pre-symptomatic early juvenile (PSEJ), or early symptomatic early juvenile (ESEJ) metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD). MLD is a rare, autosomal recessive, life-limiting lysosomal storage disease. It is caused by mutations in the arylsulfatase A (ARSA) gene or sphingolipid activator protein B (SAPB) gene which leads to accumulation of sulfatides throughout the body. Sulfatides accumulation is toxic to the nervous system and leads to gait abnormalities, speech regression, functional loss, cognitive loss, and seizures. Atidarsagene autotemcel is intended for one time administration to add functional copies of the ARSA gene into the patient's own hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). In clinical trials, pediatric patients receiving atidarsagene autotemcel had significantly extended survival compared to untreated patients. At the time of atidarsagene autotemcel approval, all patients receiving atidarsagene autotemcel were alive at 6 years of age, compared to only 58% of untreated children. Severe motor impairment-free survival was significantly extended in pediatric patients with PSLI MLD compared to untreated patients. Cognitive impairment scores were also higher in those pediatric patients receiving atidarsagene autotemcel compared to untreated pediatric patients who demonstrated severe cognitive impairment early in their disease course.

Mechanism Of Action


Atidarsagene autotemcel is an autologous hematopoietic stem cell (HSC)-based gene therapy that works by inserting one or more functional copies of the human ARSA complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) into patients' HSCs through transduction of autologous CD34 positive cells with ARSA lentiviral vector (LVV). After atidarsagene autotemcel infusion, transduced CD34 positive HSCs engraft in bone marrow, repopulate the hematopoietic compartment, and their progeny produce ARSA enzyme. Functional ARSA enzyme can breakdown or prevent the harmful accumulation of sulfatides.
 
To produce this autologous HSC-based gene therapy, HSCs are collected from the blood via apheresis procedure(s); enriched for CD34 positive cells; transduced ex vivo with ARSA LVV; and then washed, formulated into a suspension, and cryopreserved.


Pharmacokinetics

Atidarsagene autotemcel is administered intravenously.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

Median arylsulfatase A (ARSA) activity in peripheral blood mononuclear cells was at supranormal levels by 3 months after infusion in patients with pre-symptomatic late infantile (PSLI) and pre-symptomatic early juvenile (PSEJ) metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) and remained at supranormal median levels throughout the duration of follow-up (Year 5). In patients with early symptomatic early juvenile (ESEJ) MLD median ARSA activity was within normal range from Month 3 to Year 2 and supranormal activity was achieved at Year 3 and Year 5.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Atidarsagene autotemcel may carry the risk of transmitting infectious diseases to health care professionals handling the product. Follow universal precautions and local biosafety guidelines in the handling and disposal of atidarsagene autotemcel.

Injectable Administration


For autologous use only.
One time single dose intravenous use only.
Inspect the contents of the infusion bag(s) for any breaks or cracks before thawing. Do not infuse the contents if the bag is compromised; call Orchard Therapeutics at 1-888-878-0185.
Visually inspect parenteral products prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. The thawed solution is colorless to slightly yellow or pink cell suspension. It may contain small visible cell aggregates.


Intravenous Administration


The dose of atidarsagene autotemcel may be contained in 1 to 8 patient-specific infusion bags; Use the Lot Information Sheet to verify the number of infusion bags prior to preparation for infusion.
While keeping the atidarsagene autotemcel infusion bags(s) in the metal cassette(s), transfer atidarsagene autotemcel from the vapor phase of liquid nitrogen shipper to the treatment center vapor phase of liquid nitrogen storage at less than or equal to -130 degrees C (-202 degrees F) until ready for thaw and administration.
Coordinate the timing of the atidarsagene autotemcel thaw and infusion; confirm the infusion time in advance and adjust the start time for thaw so that the recipient will be ready.
 
Preparation
Remove each metal cassette from liquid nitrogen storage.
Remove the product bag from the cassette.
Confirm that the word "LENMELDY" is printed on the infusion bag label.
Confirm that patient identity matches the unique patient identification information located on the atidarsagene autotemcel infusion bag(s). Do NOT infuse if the information on the patient-specific label on the infusion bag does not match the intended patient, and contact Orchard Therapeutics at 1-888-878-0185.
Use the enclosed lot information sheet to confirm that each infusion bag is within the expiration date prior to preparation of atidarsagene autotemcel for infusion.
If more than 1 infusion bag is part of the treatment dose, thaw each infusion bag 1 at a time; do not start to thaw the next bag until the previous bag has been infused. A maximum of 8 bags may be provided per child, which would take a maximum of approximately 16 hours to complete the infusion process.
Thaw the infusion bag in the overwrap bag at 37 degrees C (98.6 degrees F) using a controlled thawing device.
Once thawing is complete, the bag should be removed immediately from the thawing device. The overwrap bag should be opened to remove the infusion bag which should be kept at room temperature until infusion.
After thawing, gently massage the contents of the bag to mix the cell suspension and disperse any cellular material.
If visible cell clumps remain, continue to gently mix the contents of the bag; most small clumps of cellular material should disperse with gentle manual mixing.
Do not shake. Do not wash, spin down, and/or resuspend atidarsagene autotemcel in new media prior to infusion.
Do not sample, alter, irradiate, or refreeze atidarsagene autotemcel.
Storage: Administer as soon as possible after thawing. Complete the IV infusion no more than 2 hours after thawing.
 
Intravenous (IV) Infusion
Do NOT irradiate or infuse using a leukodepleting filter.
Prime the tubing with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection prior to the infusion.
Administer as an IV infusion via a central venous catheter within 30 minutes via gravity or infusion pump. An infusion rate should be calculated based on the volume in each infusion bag.
Once the infusion is complete, flush all atidarsagene autotemcel remaining in the infusion bag and the tubing with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to ensure as many cells as possible are delivered. Use a rinse volume that is equal to or greater than the priming volume of any intravenous infusion set.
Repeat steps for each infusion bag.
Do not administer more than one bag per hour.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Geriatric

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Adolescents

30 x 106 CD34 positive cells/kg IV as a single dose.

Children

30 x 106 CD34 positive cells/kg IV as a single dose.

Infants

30 x 106 CD34 positive cells/kg IV as a single dose.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

LENMELDY Suspension for Infusion

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier