=== Acalabrutinib — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 4981)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acalabrutinib is a Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor approved for the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) in previously untreated adult patients who are ineligible for autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in combination with bendamustine plus rituximab and in adult patients...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 100 mg PO twice daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, hematoma, hematuria, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, menorrhagia, petechiae, anemia, lymphocytosis, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, hepatitis b exacerbation, infection, pharyngitis, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, sinusitis, tracheitis, melanoma, new primary malignancy, skin cancer, asthenia, fatigue, lethargy, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, chest pain (unspecified)

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Use acalabrutinib with caution in patients with a bleeding disorder due to an increased risk of bleeding in these patients. Major bleeding events such as intracranial bleeding have been reported with acalabrutinib therapy; some cases were fatal. Patient counseling: Advise patients to use sun protection during treatment. Emetic risk: Minimal/Low

ACALABRUTINIB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

CALQUENCE

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL)

For the treatment of MCL in patients who have received at least 1 prior therapy
Oral dosage
Adults


100 mg PO twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart) until disease progression. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, and/or discontinuation may be necessary if severe toxicity occurs. The independent review committee-assessed overall response rate was 80% (complete response rate, 40%) in patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma who received acalabrutinib in a multicenter, phase 2 trial (ACE-LY-004). At a median follow-up of 15.2 months, the median time to best response was 1.9 months; the median duration of response, progression-free survival (PFS) time, and overall survival (OS) time were not reached. The estimated 12-month PFS and OS rates were 67% and 87%, respectively. Patients (median age, 68 years) in this trial had received a median of 2 prior treatments; 18% of patients had a prior stem-cell transplant.


For the treatment of previously untreated MCL in patients who are ineligible for autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), in combination with bendamustine and rituximab
Oral dosage
Adults


100 mg PO twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart) until disease progression in combination with bendamustine (90 mg/m2/dose IV on days 1 and 2) and rituximab (375 mg/m2 IV on day 1). Treatment with bendamustine and rituximab (BR) is repeated every 28 days for 6 cycles. Patients achieving a partial or complete response after the first 6 cycles may receive maintenance rituximab on day 1 of every other cycle for a maximum of 12 additional doses starting on cycle 8 up to cycle 30. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, and/or discontinuation may be necessary if severe toxicity occurs. At a median follow-up of 49.8 months, progression-free survival was significantly longer in the acalabrutinib plus BR arm compared with the placebo plus BR arm (66.4 months vs. 49.6 months) in a randomized, multicenter study (ECHO) with untreated MCL patients who were 65 years or older and who were not intended to receive HSCT. Crossover to acalabrutinib monotherapy was permitted for patients in the placebo plus BR arm at disease progression.


For the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL)

For the treatment of CLL or SLL, as a single agent
Oral dosage
Adults


100 mg PO twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart) until disease progression. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, and/or discontinuation may be necessary if severe toxicity occurs. At a median follow-up time of 16.1 months, the median progression-free survival (PFS) time was significantly improved in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL/SLL who received acalabrutinib monotherapy (n = 155) compared with investigator choice therapy (median time not reached vs. 16.5 months) in a multicenter, open-label, randomized, phase 3 trial (n = 310; ASCEND). The median overall survival (OS) time had not been reached in either treatment arm at the time of this analysis. Investigator choice therapy consisted of idelalisib plus rituximab (n = 119) or bendamustine plus rituximab (n = 36). Patients in this trial had previously received at least 1 prior therapy (acalabrutinib arm, median of 1 prior therapy; range, 1 to 8 therapies). The median PFS time was significantly improved in patients with previously untreated CLL/SLL who received acalabrutinib monotherapy compared with obinutuzumab plus chlorambucil (median time not reached vs. 22.6 months) in a multicenter, open-label, randomized, 3-arm, phase 3 trial (n = 535; ELEVATE-TN). At a median follow-up time of 28.3 months, the median OS time had not been reached in any treatment arm.


For the treatment of previously untreated CLL or SLL, in combination with obinutuzumab
Oral dosage
Adults


100 mg PO twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart) until disease progression in combination with up to 6 cycles of obinutuzumab therapy. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interaction. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, and/or discontinuation may be necessary if severe toxicity occurs. In a clinical trial, acalabrutinib therapy was started on day 1 of cycle 1 and obinutuzumab therapy was given starting on day 1 of cycle 2 as follows: 100 mg IV on day 1, 900 mg IV on day 2, and then 1,000 mg IV on days 8 and 15 followed by obinutuzumab 1,000 mg IV on day 1 of cycles 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7; cycles were repeated every 28 days. The median progression-free survival time was significantly improved in patients with previously untreated CLL/SLL who received acalabrutinib plus obinutuzumab compared with obinutuzumab plus chlorambucil (median time not reached vs. 22.6 months) in a multicenter, open-label, randomized, 3-arm, phase 3 trial (n = 535; ELEVATE-TN). At a median follow-up time of 28.3 months, the median overall survival time had not been reached in any treatment arm.


For the treatment of previously untreated CLL or SLL, in combination with venetoclax
Oral dosage
Adults


100 mg PO twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart) starting on cycle 1 day 1 until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or completion of 14 cycles (28-day cycles). Administer in combination with venetoclax starting on day 1 of cycle 3 for a total of 12 cycles. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, and/or discontinuation may be necessary if severe toxicity occurs. In a clinical trial (AMPLIFY), acalabrutinib started on day 1 of cycle 1 and venetoclax started on day 1 of cycle 3 using a 5-week ramp-up schedule as follows: week 1, 20 mg PO once daily for 7 days; week 2, 50 mg/day; week 3, 100 mg/day; week 4, 200 mg/day; and week 5 and beyond, 400 mg/day. Venetoclax was administered for a total of 12 cycles. At a median follow-up of 42.6 months, progression-free survival (PFS) was not estimable in the acalabrutinib plus venetoclax arm (AV; n = 291) compared with 47.6 months in the investigator's choice of chemoimmunotherapy arm (fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide plus rituximab [FCR] or bendamustine plus rituximab [BR]; n = 290). At a median follow-up of 41 months, more deaths were reported in the FCR/BR arm (14%) compared with the AV arm (6%).


For the treatment of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia†

Oral dosage
Adults


100 mg orally twice daily until disease progression was evaluated in a phase 2 trial (n = 106). Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, and/or discontinuation may be necessary if severe toxicity occurs.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

bleeding disorder, planned procedure, surgery


Use acalabrutinib with caution in patients with a bleeding disorder due to an increased risk of bleeding in these patients. Major bleeding events such as intracranial bleeding have been reported with acalabrutinib therapy; some cases were fatal. Use acalabrutinib with caution in patients who have had recent surgery due to an increased risk of bleeding. Evaluate the risk/benefit of using concomitant antithrombotic therapy or for holding acalabrutinib therapy in patients scheduled to have surgery or a planned procedure. An interruption in therapy may be necessary depending on the type of surgery (e.g., dental work/procedures) and the risk of bleeding.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

infection


Use with caution in patients with an infection; serious and fatal infections have been reported with acalabrutinib therapy. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, hepatitis B virus reactivation, Epstein-Barr virus reactivation, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, and cytomegalovirus have occurred. Consider infection prophylaxis in patients at risk for opportunistic infections.


Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Avoid the use of acalabrutinib in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C), including hepatic failure. Hepatotoxicity has occurred with acalabrutinib therapy; some cases were fatal. An interruption of therapy or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the type and severity of hepatotoxicity.


cardiac disease, hypertension


Use acalabrutinib with caution in patients with cardiac disease/risk factors, hypertension, a history of arrhythmias, or acute infection due to an increased risk of developing an arrhythmia in these patients. Cardiac arrhythmias have been reported in patients who received acalabrutinib; some cases were fatal.


pregnancy


Pregnancy should be avoided during acalabrutinib treatment and for at least 1 week after the last dose. Although there are no available human data, animal data suggests acalabrutinib can cause fetal harm and dystocia when taken during pregnancy. In animal studies, dystocia occurred in rats and decreased fetal body weights and delayed skeletal ossification were observed in rabbits following acalabrutinib doses that resulted in drug exposure 2-times of that reported at clinical human doses (100 mg twice daily). Individuals who are pregnant or who become pregnant while receiving acalabrutinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel patients about the reproductive risk associated with acalabrutinib. This medication can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status in people who may become pregnant prior to treatment initiation. Advise this population to use effective contraception during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose. Individuals who are pregnant or who become pregnant while receiving acalabrutinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking acalabrutinib and for 2 weeks after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of acalabrutinib in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed child, or the effects of milk production. Acalabrutinib and its active metabolite were secreted in the milk of lactating rats. Due to the potential for serious adverse effects in the breast-fed child, breast-feeding during acalabrutinib therapy is not recommended.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Pregnancy should be avoided during acalabrutinib treatment and for at least 1 week after the last dose. Although there are no available human data, animal data suggests acalabrutinib can cause fetal harm and dystocia when taken during pregnancy. In animal studies, dystocia occurred in rats and decreased fetal body weights and delayed skeletal ossification were observed in rabbits following acalabrutinib doses that resulted in drug exposure 2-times of that reported at clinical human doses (100 mg twice daily). Individuals who are pregnant or who become pregnant while receiving acalabrutinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus.


Interactions

Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and dolutegravir may increase dolutegravir exposure and increase the risk of dolutegravir toxicity. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Dolutegravir is a BCRP transporter substrate in vitro.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and adagrasib; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term adagrasib use is necessary, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by 5.1-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with acalabrutinib due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together. Acalabrutinib capsules solubility decreases with increasing pH values; therefore, coadministration may result in decreased acalabrutinib exposure and effectiveness. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another antacid.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together. Acalabrutinib capsules solubility decreases with increasing pH values; therefore, coadministration may result in decreased acalabrutinib exposure and effectiveness. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another antacid.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together. Acalabrutinib capsules solubility decreases with increasing pH values; therefore, coadministration may result in decreased acalabrutinib exposure and effectiveness. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another antacid.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together. Acalabrutinib capsules solubility decreases with increasing pH values; therefore, coadministration may result in decreased acalabrutinib exposure and effectiveness. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another antacid.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together. Acalabrutinib capsules solubility decreases with increasing pH values; therefore, coadministration may result in decreased acalabrutinib exposure and effectiveness. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another antacid.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and clarithromycin; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term clarithromycin use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after clarithromycin has been discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and omeprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. Consider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsuel solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with omeprazole 40 mg/day for 5 days.
Antacids: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together. Acalabrutinib capsules solubility decreases with increasing pH values; therefore, coadministration may result in decreased acalabrutinib exposure and effectiveness. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another antacid.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of acalabrutinib. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with a multi-day regimen of aprepitant and for several days after administration of aprepitant. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor when administered as a 3-day regimen and a weak inhibitor when given as a single dose. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions; it is also a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor when administered as a single dose. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values; therefore, coadministration may result in decreased acalabrutinib exposure and effectiveness. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with another antacid.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and omeprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. Consider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsuel solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with omeprazole 40 mg/day for 5 days.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and atazanavir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and atazanavir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and cobicistat; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Avacopan: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with avacopan. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Berotralstat: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with berotralstat. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with acalabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with lenacapavir. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred when acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate were coadministered in a drug interaction study. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with calcium carbonate 1 gram.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred when acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate were coadministered in a drug interaction study. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with calcium carbonate 1 gram. (Moderate) The risk for a drug interaction varies by acalabrutinib dosage form. Administer acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before an H2-blocker; simultaneous coadministration is expected to decrease capsule absorption and reduce acalabrutinib efficacy. Acalabrutinib tablets are unaffected by gastric acid reducing agents, such as H2-blockers, and may be administered without regard to the H2-blocker time of administration. Consider using acalabrutinib tablets in patients requiring a gastric acid reducing agent.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred when acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate were coadministered in a drug interaction study. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with calcium carbonate 1 gram.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred when acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate were coadministered in a drug interaction study. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with calcium carbonate 1 gram.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred when acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate were coadministered in a drug interaction study. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with calcium carbonate 1 gram.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred when acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate were coadministered in a drug interaction study. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with calcium carbonate 1 gram.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and carbamazepine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and ceritinib; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and chloramphenicol; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term chloramphenicol use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after chloramphenicol has been discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) The risk for a drug interaction varies by acalabrutinib dosage form. Administer acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before an H2-blocker; simultaneous coadministration is expected to decrease capsule absorption and reduce acalabrutinib efficacy. Acalabrutinib tablets are unaffected by gastric acid reducing agents, such as H2-blockers, and may be administered without regard to the H2-blocker time of administration. Consider using acalabrutinib tablets in patients requiring a gastric acid reducing agent.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with ciprofloxacin. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and clarithromycin; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term clarithromycin use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after clarithromycin has been discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and cobicistat; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Conivaptan: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with conivaptan. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Crizotinib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with crizotinib. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with cyclosporine. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and darunavir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and cobicistat; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and darunavir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and cobicistat; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and darunavir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with acalabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Dexlansoprazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and proton pump inhibitors (PPI), such as dexlansoprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur resulting in decreased acalabrutinib effectiveness. Consider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with another PPI for 5 days.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with diltiazem. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and dolutegravir may increase dolutegravir exposure and increase the risk of dolutegravir toxicity. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Dolutegravir is a BCRP transporter substrate in vitro.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and dolutegravir may increase dolutegravir exposure and increase the risk of dolutegravir toxicity. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Dolutegravir is a BCRP transporter substrate in vitro.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and dolutegravir may increase dolutegravir exposure and increase the risk of dolutegravir toxicity. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Dolutegravir is a BCRP transporter substrate in vitro.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and tenofovir disoproxil fumerate may increase may increase the absorption and plasma concentration of tenofovir disoproxil fumerate. Monitor patients for tenofovir-related adverse reactions and discontinue use in patients who experience an adverse reaction. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Tenofovir disoproxil fumerate is a BCRP substrate.
Dronedarone: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Duvelisib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with duvelisib. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and tenofovir disoproxil fumerate may increase may increase the absorption and plasma concentration of tenofovir disoproxil fumerate. Monitor patients for tenofovir-related adverse reactions and discontinue use in patients who experience an adverse reaction. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Tenofovir disoproxil fumerate is a BCRP substrate.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and tenofovir disoproxil fumerate may increase may increase the absorption and plasma concentration of tenofovir disoproxil fumerate. Monitor patients for tenofovir-related adverse reactions and discontinue use in patients who experience an adverse reaction. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Tenofovir disoproxil fumerate is a BCRP substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and cobicistat; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with acalabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and cobicistat; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days. (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and tenofovir disoproxil fumerate may increase may increase the absorption and plasma concentration of tenofovir disoproxil fumerate. Monitor patients for tenofovir-related adverse reactions and discontinue use in patients who experience an adverse reaction. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Tenofovir disoproxil fumerate is a BCRP substrate.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with acalabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and tenofovir disoproxil fumerate may increase may increase the absorption and plasma concentration of tenofovir disoproxil fumerate. Monitor patients for tenofovir-related adverse reactions and discontinue use in patients who experience an adverse reaction. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Tenofovir disoproxil fumerate is a BCRP substrate.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with acalabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and tenofovir disoproxil fumerate may increase may increase the absorption and plasma concentration of tenofovir disoproxil fumerate. Monitor patients for tenofovir-related adverse reactions and discontinue use in patients who experience an adverse reaction. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Tenofovir disoproxil fumerate is a BCRP substrate.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and encorafenib. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 77% when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and ensitrelvir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term ensitrelvir use is necessary, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by 5.1-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and enzalutamide. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inducer.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
Erythromycin: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with erythromycin. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and proton pump inhibitors (PPI), such as esomeprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur resulting in decreased acalabrutinib effectiveness. Consider the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with another PPI for 5 days.
Famotidine: (Moderate) The risk for a drug interaction varies by acalabrutinib dosage form. Administer acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before an H2-blocker; simultaneous coadministration is expected to decrease capsule absorption and reduce acalabrutinib efficacy. Acalabrutinib tablets are unaffected by gastric acid reducing agents, such as H2-blockers, and may be administered without regard to the H2-blocker time of administration. Consider using acalabrutinib tablets in patients requiring a gastric acid reducing agent.
Fedratinib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with fedratinib. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Fluconazole: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with fluconazole. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with fluvoxamine. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with fosamprenavir. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and fosphenytoin. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and glecaprevir may increase glecaprevir exposure and increase the risk of glecaprevir toxicity. Acalabrutinib is a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Glecaprevir is a substrate and inhibitor of BCRP. (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and pibrentasvir may increase pibrentasvir exposure and increase the risk of pibrentasvir toxicity. Acalabrutinib is a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Pibrentasvir is a substrate and inhibitor of BCRP.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during acalabrutinib treatment due to the risk for increased acalabrutinib exposure and adverse reactions. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
H2-blockers: (Moderate) The risk for a drug interaction varies by acalabrutinib dosage form. Administer acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before an H2-blocker; simultaneous coadministration is expected to decrease capsule absorption and reduce acalabrutinib efficacy. Acalabrutinib tablets are unaffected by gastric acid reducing agents, such as H2-blockers, and may be administered without regard to the H2-blocker time of administration. Consider using acalabrutinib tablets in patients requiring a gastric acid reducing agent.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) The risk for a drug interaction varies by acalabrutinib dosage form. Administer acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before an H2-blocker; simultaneous coadministration is expected to decrease capsule absorption and reduce acalabrutinib efficacy. Acalabrutinib tablets are unaffected by gastric acid reducing agents, such as H2-blockers, and may be administered without regard to the H2-blocker time of administration. Consider using acalabrutinib tablets in patients requiring a gastric acid reducing agent.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and idelalisib; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Imatinib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with imatinib. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Additionally, acalabrutinib may increase imatinib exposure and increase the risk of imatinib toxicity. Acalabrutinib is a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Imatinib is a BCRP substrate.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with isavuconazonium. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and itraconazole; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. If short-term itraconazole use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after itraconazole is discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with itraconazole 200 mg/day for 5 days.
Ivosidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of acalabrutinib efficacy if coadministration with ivosidenib is necessary; a dosage increase of acalabrutinib may be needed. Acalabrutinib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Ivosidenib is a CYP3A4 inducer and may reduce acalabrutinib exposure.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and ketoconazole; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term ketoconazole use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after ketoconazole has been discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and tenofovir disoproxil fumerate may increase may increase the absorption and plasma concentration of tenofovir disoproxil fumerate. Monitor patients for tenofovir-related adverse reactions and discontinue use in patients who experience an adverse reaction. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Tenofovir disoproxil fumerate is a BCRP substrate.
Lansoprazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and proton pump inhibitors (PPI), such as lansoprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur resulting in decreased acalabrutinib effectiveness. Consider onsider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with another PPI for 5 days.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and clarithromycin; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term clarithromycin use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after clarithromycin has been discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and proton pump inhibitors (PPI), such as lansoprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur resulting in decreased acalabrutinib effectiveness. Consider onsider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with another PPI for 5 days.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and sofosbuvir may increase the exposure and the risk of toxicity of sofosbuvir. Acalabrutinib is a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Sofosbuvir is a BCRP transporter substrate.
Lefamulin: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with oral lefamulin. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with lenacapavir. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Letermovir: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with letermovir. Avoid concomitant use in patients also receiving cyclosporine because the magnitude of the interaction may be increased. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors. The combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be like a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and ketoconazole; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term ketoconazole use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after ketoconazole has been discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and lonafarnib; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term lonafarnib use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after lonafarnib is discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and ritonavir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together. Acalabrutinib capsules solubility decreases with increasing pH values; therefore, coadministration may result in decreased acalabrutinib exposure and effectiveness. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another antacid.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together. Acalabrutinib capsules solubility decreases with increasing pH values; therefore, coadministration may result in decreased acalabrutinib exposure and effectiveness. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another antacid.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
Methotrexate: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and methotrexate may increase methotrexate exposure and increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity. Acalabrutinib is a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Methotrexate is a BCRP transporter substrate.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid use of these drugs together if possible. Significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur when mifepristone is used chronically in the treatment of hormonal conditions, such as Cushing's syndrome. If mifepristone use is unavoidable, limit the dose of acalabrutinib to 100 mg once daily and monitor closely for drug-related toxicity and need for further adjustment or interruption of acalbrutinib therapy. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mifepristone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Mifepristone is expected to increase the exposure of CYP3A4 substrates. Due to the slow elimination of mifepristone from the body, any drug interactions that occur may be prolonged.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and mitotane. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
mitoXANTRONE: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and mitoxantrone may increase mitoxantrone exposure and increase the risk of mitoxantrone toxicity. Acalabrutinib is a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Mitoxantrone is a BCRP subtrate.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and proton pump inhibitors (PPI), such as esomeprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur resulting in decreased acalabrutinib effectiveness. Consider the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with another PPI for 5 days.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and nefazodone; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and nelfinavir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with netupitant. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; netupitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Nilotinib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with nilotinib. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and ritonavir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with nirogacestat. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Nizatidine: (Moderate) The risk for a drug interaction varies by acalabrutinib dosage form. Administer acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before an H2-blocker; simultaneous coadministration is expected to decrease capsule absorption and reduce acalabrutinib efficacy. Acalabrutinib tablets are unaffected by gastric acid reducing agents, such as H2-blockers, and may be administered without regard to the H2-blocker time of administration. Consider using acalabrutinib tablets in patients requiring a gastric acid reducing agent.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and omeprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. Consider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsuel solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with omeprazole 40 mg/day for 5 days.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and omeprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. Consider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsuel solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with omeprazole 40 mg/day for 5 days.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and omeprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. Consider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsuel solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with omeprazole 40 mg/day for 5 days. (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values; therefore, coadministration may result in decreased acalabrutinib exposure and effectiveness. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with another antacid.
Pantoprazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and proton pump inhibitors (PPI), such as pantoprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur resulting in decreased acalabrutinib effectiveness. Consider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with another PPI for 5 days.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and pazopanib may increase pazopanib exposure and increase the risk of pazopanib toxicity. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Pazopanib is a BCRP substrate.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and phenobarbital. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and phenobarbital. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and phenytoin. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant therapy of acalabrutinib with metformin. Concomitant use o fmedications that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., MATE inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. The active metabolite of acalabrutinib (ACP-5862) inhibits MATE1 in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of coadministered substrates of these transporters.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and posaconazole; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term posaconazole use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after posaconazole has been discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and primidone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
quiNINE: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with quinine. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; quinine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
RABEprazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and proton pump inhibitors (PPI), such as rabeprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur resulting in decreased acalabrutinib effectiveness. Consider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsuel solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with another PPI for 5 days.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and relacorilant; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term relacorilant use is necessary, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by 5.1-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acalabrutinib and ribociclib 600 mg/day; decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with ribociclib 400 mg/day or less. Concomitant use may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by 5.1-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acalabrutinib and ribociclib 600 mg/day; decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with ribociclib 400 mg/day or less. Concomitant use may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by 5.1-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and rifampin. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with rifampin 600 mg/day for 9 days.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and rifapentine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and ritonavir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with acalabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with acalabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and saquinavir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values; therefore, coadministration may result in decreased acalabrutinib exposure and effectiveness. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with another antacid.
Sofosbuvir: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and sofosbuvir may increase the exposure and the risk of toxicity of sofosbuvir. Acalabrutinib is a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Sofosbuvir is a BCRP transporter substrate.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and sofosbuvir may increase the exposure and the risk of toxicity of sofosbuvir. Acalabrutinib is a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Sofosbuvir is a BCRP transporter substrate. (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and velpatasvir may increase the exposure and the risk of toxicity of either drug. Both acalabrutinib and velpatasvir are a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter; acalabrutinib may inhibit intestinal BCRP.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and sofosbuvir may increase the exposure and the risk of toxicity of sofosbuvir. Acalabrutinib is a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Sofosbuvir is a BCRP transporter substrate. (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and velpatasvir may increase the exposure and the risk of toxicity of either drug. Both acalabrutinib and velpatasvir are a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter; acalabrutinib may inhibit intestinal BCRP.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and St. Johns Wort. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; St. Johns Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of acalabrutinib when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of acalabrutinib resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Acalabrutinib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
sulfaSALAzine: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and sulfasalazine may increase sulfasalazine exposure and increase the risk of sulfasalazine toxicity. Acalabrutinib is a substrate and inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Sulfasalazine is a BCRP subtrate.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of acalabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP substrate and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with acalabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and tenofovir disoproxil fumerate may increase may increase the absorption and plasma concentration of tenofovir disoproxil fumerate. Monitor patients for tenofovir-related adverse reactions and discontinue use in patients who experience an adverse reaction. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Tenofovir disoproxil fumerate is a BCRP substrate.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and tipranavir; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of acalabrutinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; acalabrutinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of the Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with verapamil. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and tucatinib; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with acalabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with verapamil. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acalabrutinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of acalabrutinib reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acalabrutinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of acalabrutinib reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acalabrutinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of acalabrutinib reducing its efficacy. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and clarithromycin; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term clarithromycin use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after clarithromycin has been discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and voriconazole; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term voriconazole use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after voriconazole is discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Voxelotor: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with voxelotor. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.


Adverse Reaction
bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, hematoma, hematuria, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, menorrhagia, petechiae


In a pooled safety analysis, bleeding events were reported in 39% of patients with hematologic malignancies who received acalabrutinib in clinical trials; major bleeding defined as grade 3 or 4 bleeding event or any central nervous system/intracranial bleeding (4.7%) and fatal hemorrhage (0.1%) also occurred with acalabrutinib therapy. Use of concomitant antithrombotic agents with acalabrutinib may further increase the risk of hemorrhage. Monitor patients for signs or symptoms of bleeding and manage appropriately. Evaluate the risk/benefit of using concomitant antithrombotic therapy or for continuing acalabrutinib therapy in patients scheduled to have surgery. Consider stopping acalabrutinib for 3 to 7 days pre- and post-surgery depending on the type of surgery (e.g., dental work/procedures) and the risk of bleeding. Bleeding (8% to 20%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% to 1.7%), bruising (10% to 21%), and epistaxis (6%) were reported in patients who received single-agent acalabrutinib for the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) in clinical trials. Additionally, bleeding (less than 15% to 20%; grade 3 or 4, 1.7% or less) and bruising (less than 15% to 31%) occurred in MCL or CLL/SLL patients who received acalabrutinib in combination with other therapies. The term bruising included contusion, petechiae, and ecchymosis. The term bleeding included hemorrhage, hematoma, hemoptysis, hematuria, menorrhagia, hemarthrosis, and epistaxis.


anemia, lymphocytosis, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


In a pooled safety analysis, grade 3 or 4 neutropenia (28%), thrombocytopenia (9%), anemia (9%), and lymphopenia (10%) occurred in patients with hematologic malignancies who received acalabrutinib in clinical trials. Monitor complete blood counts regularly. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, and/or discontinuation may be necessary if severe hematologic toxicity occurs. Anemia (46% to 53%; grade 3 or 4, 10% to 15%), thrombocytopenia (32% to 44%; grade 3 or 4, 3.4% to 12%), neutropenia (23% to 48%; grade 3 or 4, 13% to 23%), and lymphocytosis (26% or less; grade 3 or 4, 19% or less) were reported in patients who received single-agent acalabrutinib for the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) in clinical trials. Additionally, lymphopenia (56% to 98%; grade 3 or 4, 12% to 87%), anemia (35% to 80%; grade 3 or 4, 7% to 12%), thrombocytopenia (43% to 69%; grade 3 or 4, 5% to 18%), neutropenia (53% to 78%; grade 3 or 4, 37% to 56%), and lymphocytosis (12%; grade 3 or 4, 11%) occurred in MCL or CLL/SLL patients who received acalabrutinib in combination with other therapies.


hepatitis B exacerbation, infection, pharyngitis, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, sinusitis, tracheitis


In a pooled safety analysis, grade 3 or higher infection (e.g., respiratory tract infection [18%], pneumonia [14%], and neutropenic infection [8%]) occurred in 29% of patients with hematologic malignancies who received acalabrutinib in clinical trials; some cases were fatal. Opportunistic infections including hepatitis B exacerbation/reactivation, fungal pneumonia, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, Epstein-Barr virus reactivation, cytomegalovirus, and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy have also been reported. Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of infection and treat promptly. Consider infection prophylaxis in patients at risk for opportunistic infections. Infection (56% to 69%; grade 3 or higher, 14% to 22%) including upper respiratory tract infection (less than 15% to 39%; grade 3 or 4, 2.8% or less), lower respiratory tract infection (less than 15% to 24%; grade 3 or 4, 8% or less), urinary tract infection (15%; grade 3 or 4, 2.8% or less), and herpes virus infection (6% or less) were reported in patients who received single-agent acalabrutinib, acalabrutinib plus obinutuzumab, acalabrutinib plus venetoclax, or acalabrutinib plus bendamustine and rituximab for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) or mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) in clinical trials. Additionally, COVID-19 infections including COVID-19 pneumonia (21% and 38%; grade 3 or higher, 6% and 13%) and pneumonia (less than 15% and 31%; grade 3 or 4, 0% and 17%) were reported in CLL/SLL patients treated with acalabrutinib plus venetoclax and MCL patients treated with acalabrutinib plus bendamustine and rituximab, respectively. The term upper respiratory infection included naso-pharyngitis and sinusitis. The term lower respiratory infection included pneumonia, bronchitis, bronchiolitis, tracheitis, and lung infection.


atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter


In a pooled safety analysis, atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter was reported in 7% (grade 3 or 4, 2.2%) of patients with hematologic malignancies who received acalabrutinib in clinical trials. Additionally, grade 3 or higher ventricular arrhythmia events were reported in 0.5% of patients, including fatal cases in 0.3% of all patients. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of arrhythmias and manage appropriately.


melanoma, new primary malignancy, skin cancer


In a pooled safety analysis, new primary malignancy was reported in 16% of patients with hematologic malignancies who received acalabrutinib in clinical trials; non-melanoma skin cancer (9%) was the most frequently reported, followed by other solid tumors (8%) including melanoma, lung cancer, gastrointestinal cancers, and genitourinary cancers, and then hematologic malignancies (1.1%). In previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma, secondary primary malignancy occurred in less than 15% and 19% (grade 3 or 4, 0% and 7%) of patients who received acalabrutinib plus venetoclax and acalabrutinib plus bendamustine and rituximab in separate clinical trials respectively.


dizziness, headache


Headache (22% to 39%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6% to 1.6%) and dizziness (12%) were reported in patients who received single-agent acalabrutinib for the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) in clinical trials. Additionally, headache (31% to 40%; grade 3 or 4, 1.1% to 1.7%) and dizziness (less than 15% to 20%; grade 3 or 4, 1% or less) occurred in patients who received acalabrutinib in combination with other therapies in clinical trials.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting


Gastrointestinal adverse events including diarrhea/colitis (18% to 31%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6% to 3.2%), nausea (22% or less; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%), abdominal pain (15%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6%), constipation (15%), and vomiting (13%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6%) were reported in patients who received single-agent acalabrutinib for the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) in clinical trials. Additionally, diarrhea (33% to 39%; grade 3 or 4, 1.7% to 4.5%), nausea (15% to 20%), vomiting (less than 15% to 26%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less), constipation (less than 15% to 25%; grade 3 or 4, 1% or less), and abdominal pain (less than 15%) occurred in MCL or CLL/SLL patients who received acalabrutinib in combination with other therapies.


asthenia, fatigue, lethargy


Fatigue including lethargy and asthenia was reported in 15% to 28% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% to 1.9%) of patients who received single-agent acalabrutinib for the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) in clinical trials. Additionally, fatigue (18% to 37%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3% to 3.7%) was reported in MCL or CLL/SLL patients who received acalabrutinib in combination with other therapies.


arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, chest pain (unspecified), musculoskeletal pain, myalgia


Musculoskeletal adverse events including myalgia (21%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%), arthralgia (16% or less; grade 3 or 4, 0.6% or less), and musculoskeletal pain (32% or less; grade 3 or 4, 1.3% or less) were reported in patients who received single-agent acalabrutinib for the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) in clinical trials. Additionally, musculoskeletal pain (37%; grade 3 or 4, 2.2%) and arthralgia (less than 15% to 22%; grade 3 or 4, 1.1% or less) occurred in MCL or CLL/SLL patients who received acalabrutinib in combination with other therapies. The term musculoskeletal pain included back pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, musculoskeletal discomfort, non-cardiac chest pain (unspecified), jaw pain, neck pain, extremity pain, myalgia, spinal pain, and bone pain.


rash


Rash was reported in 9% to 25% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less) of patients who received single-agent acalabrutinib for the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) in clinical trials. Additionally, rash including dermatitis (16% to 47%; grade 3 or 4, 1% to 12%) occurred in MCL or CLL/SLL patients who received acalabrutinib in combination with other therapies.


hypertension


Hypertension was reported in less than 15% of patients who received single-agent acalabrutinib or acalabrutinib in combination with other therapies in clinical trials.


nephrotoxicity


Nephrotoxicity, specifically elevated serum creatinine level to 1.5 to 3 times the upper limit of normal, was reported in 1.3% to 4.8% of patients who received single-agent acalabrutinib or acalabrutinib plus obinutuzumab in clinical trials. Additionally, increased creatinine (19% and 37%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3% and 3%) occurred in patients who received acalabrutinib plus venetoclax and acalabrutinib plus bendamustine and rituximab in separate clinical trials respectively.


hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypernatremia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia, tumor lysis syndrome


Grade 3 or 4 hyperuricemia was reported in 15% to 22% of patients who received single-agent acalabrutinib chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) in clinical trials. Additionally, hyperuricemia (grade 3 or 4, 25% to 45%), hyperkalemia (22% to 40%; grade 3 or 4, 2.4% to 7%), hypophosphatemia (36%; grade 3 or 4, 4.4), and hypokalemia (29%; grade 3 or 4, 7%) occurred in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) or CLL/SLL patients treated with acalabrutinib in combination with other therapies. Hyperglycemia (74%), hypocalcemia (30%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%), increased LDH (24%), hypoglycemia (20%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3%), and hypernatremia (15%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3) occurred in CLL/SLL patients who received acalabrutinib plus venetoclax in a clinical trial and tumor lysis syndrome (less than 15%) occurred in MCL patients who received acalabrutinib plus bendamustine and rituximab in another clinical trial.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia


Elevated hepatic enzymes such as increased ALT (20%; grade 3 or 4, 1.9%), and AST (17%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6%) were reported in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) who received single-agent acalabrutinib in clinical trials. Additionally, increased ALT (26% to 44%; grade 3 or 4, 3.1% to 7%), increased AST (22% to 53%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4% to 5%), and hyperbilirubinemia (13% to 19%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6% to 2%) occurred in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) or CLL/SLL patients who received acalabrutinib in combination with other therapies. Increased alkaline phosphatase (20%) occurred in CLL/SLL patients treated with acalabrutinib plus venetoclax in a clinical trial. Monitor liver function tests at baseline and throughout treatment; increase the frequency of monitoring in patients with liver test abnormalities and clinical signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. Hepatotoxicity including severe, life-threatening, and potentially fatal cases of drug-induced liver injury (DILI) has been reported in postmarketing experience with acalabrutinib; interrupt acalabrutinib if DILI is suspected and discontinue therapy if DILI is confirmed.


cough, dyspnea, edema, fever


Fever (29%; grade 3 or 4, 2.4%), cough (27%), edema (20%; grade 3 or 4, 1.3%), and dyspnea (17%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) were reported in previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma patients who received acalabrutinib plus bendamustine and rituximab in a clinical trial.


Description

Acalabrutinib is a Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor approved for the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) in previously untreated adult patients who are ineligible for autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in combination with bendamustine plus rituximab and in adult patients with MCL who have received at least 1 prior therapy. It is also approved as a single-agent or in combination with obinutuzumab or venetoclax in adult patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma. Serious bleeding events have been reported with acalabrutinib therapy, including intracranial bleeding and GI bleeding.

Mechanism Of Action

Acalabrutinib is an irreversible Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor. BTK is a signaling molecule early within the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) signaling cascade. Signaling from BCR regulates several pro-survival mechanisms of B-cells, including proliferation, trafficking, chemotaxis, and adhesion. Acalabrutinib and its active metabolite, ACP-5862, form a covalent bond with a cysteine residue in the BTK active site, leading to inhibition of BTK enzymatic activity and inhibition of malignant B-cell proliferation and survival. It has also demonstrated an inhibition of BTK-mediated activation of downstream signaling proteins CD86 and CD69. Acalabrutinib is a second generation BTK inhibitor that was designed to be more potent and selective than ibrutinib. It has a higher selectivity for BTK (IC50 greater than 1000 nM) compared with ibrutinib. Additionally, acalabrutinib does not inhibit EGFR, ITK, or TEC kinases or platelet aggregation and may have a more favorable safety profile.

Pharmacokinetics

Acalabrutinib is administered orally. It is highly (97.5%) and reversibly bound to plasma proteins with a mean blood-to-plasma ratio of 0.8 in vitro. For acalabrutinib, the geometric mean steady state volume of distribution is 101 L (coefficient of variation [CV], 52%), the geometric mean apparent oral clearance is 148 L/hour (CV, 33%), and the geometric mean terminal elimination half-lives are 1 hour (CV, 59%) for the capsules and 1.4 hours (CV, 50%) for the tablets. Acalabrutinib is metabolized via CYP3A enzymes (major pathway) and by glutathione conjugation and amide hydrolysis to a lesser extent. The major active metabolite is ACP-5862; its potency for inhibiting Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) is approximately 50% less than acalabrutinib. For ACP-5862, the geometric mean steady state volume of distribution is 67 L (CV, 32%), the geometric mean apparent oral clearance is 19 L/hour (CV, 23%), and the geometric mean terminal elimination half-lives are 3.5 hours (CV, 24%) for the capsules and 6.4 hours (CV, 37%) for the tablets. Acalabrutinib is eliminated primarily via feces. In healthy subjects, about 84% and 12% of the radioactivity was excreted in the feces and urine, respectively, following a single 100 mg-dose of radiolabeled acalabrutinib. Unchanged acalabrutinib accounted for less than 2% of the radiolabeled excretion product. In patients with B-cell malignancies, the BTK active site was over 95% occupied in the peripheral blood throughout the recommended dosing interval (12 hours) following the administration of acalabrutinib 100 mg twice daily.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes or transporters: CYP3A4, BCRP, MATE1
Acalabrutinib is metabolized primarily by CYP3A; it is a sensitive CYP3A substrate. In vitro, acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of CYP3A4/5, CYP2C8, and CYP2C9 and an inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2B6 and CYP3A4. The active metabolite, ACP-5862, is an inhibitor of CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 and a CYP3A4 inducer. Acalabrutinib and ACP-5862 are substrates of P-glycoprotein and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporters in vitro; ACP-5862 is an inhibitor of MATE1. Coadministration with BCRP substrates (e.g., methotrexate) may increase the exposure of the BCRP substrate due to intestinal BCRP inhibition. Coadministration with MATE1 substrates (e.g., metformin) may increase the exposure of the MATE1 substrate.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The geometric mean absolute bioavailability of oral acalabrutinib is 25%. Following capsule administration, maximum concentrations are reached at a median Tmax of 0.9 hour for acalabrutinib and 1.6 hours for the major active metabolite, ACP-5862. Following tablet administration, maximum concentrations are reached at a median Tmax of 0.5 hours for acalabrutinib and 0.75 hours for ACP-5862. Acalabrutinib exhibits dose-proportionality and almost linear kinetics over a dose range of 75 mg to 250 mg in patients with B-cell malignancies. The acalabrutinib geometric mean Cmax and AUC(0-24h) values were 563 ng/mL (coefficient of variation [CV], 29%) and 1,843 ng x hour/mL (CV, 38%), respectively, following the recommended dose of acalabrutinib 100 mg twice daily. The geometric mean AUC of ACP-5862 is approximately 2- to 3-fold higher than the acalabrutinib AUC value.
Effects of Food: In healthy volunteers, the mean AUC of acalabrutinib was not significantly different following the administration of a single 75-mg capsule dose or 100-mg tablet dose of acalabrutinib with a high-fat and high-calorie meal (approximately 918 calories, 59 grams carbohydrate, 59 grams fat, and 39 grams protein) compared with the same dose administered under fasted conditions. The acalabrutinib Cmax values were decreased by 73% and 54% with the capsule and tablet doses, respectively. The Tmax was delayed 1 to 2 hours when acalabrutinib was given with a high-fat and high-calorie meal.

Hepatic Impairment

The acalabrutinib AUC was increased 1.9-fold, 1.5-fold, and 5.3-fold in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh class A), moderate (Child-Pugh class B), and severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, respectively, compared with subjects who had normal liver function in a hepatic impairment study. Additionally, mild or moderate hepatic impairment (total bilirubin 3 times ULN or less and any AST) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of acalabrutinib or the active metabolite (ACP-5862) compared with subjects with normal hepatic function.

Renal Impairment

Mild or moderate renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] 30 to less than 90 mL/min) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of acalabrutinib based on a population PK analysis. Renal impairment was estimated using the modification of diet in renal disease equation. The PK parameters of acalabrutinib have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/min) or in patients receiving dialysis.

Geriatric

Age (range, 32 to 90 years) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of acalabrutinib or its active metabolite (ACP-5862) in a population PK analysis.

Gender Differences

Gender did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of acalabrutinib or its active metabolite (ACP-5862) in a population PK analysis.

Ethnic Differences

Ethnicity (e.g., Caucasian or African American) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of acalabrutinib or its active metabolite (ACP-5862) in a population PK analysis.

Obesity

Weight (40 to 149 kg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of acalabrutinib or its active metabolite (ACP-5862) in a population PK analysis.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
Patient Counseling
Advise patients to use sun protection during treatment.


Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Take acalabrutinib with a glass of water at the same time each day (doses approximately 12 hours apart).
Swallow whole; do not open, break, or chew the capsules or cut, chew, or crush the tablets.
May take with or without food; do not take with grapefruit juice.
If a dose is missed, take within 3 hours of missing the dose. If more than 3 hours have passed, skip the dose and take the next dose at its regularly scheduled time.
For acalabrutinib capsules, take the dose 2 hours before taking a H2-blocker and separate the dose from antacids by at least 2 hours.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

100 mg PO twice daily.

Geriatric

100 mg PO twice daily.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy not established.

Children

Safety and efficacy not established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Forms

CALQUENCE 100mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Mild (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment: Dosage adjustment not necessary.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C): Avoid use.
 
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity
Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI): Interrupt acalabrutinib therapy if DILI is suspected; discontinue therapy if confirmed.


Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier