=== Phentermine/Topiramate (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3773)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Phentermine; topiramate is a combination product containing an anorectic sympathomimetic amine (phentermine) with topiramate, an antiepileptic drug with weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor activity whose precise role in weight reduction is not known.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 15 mg phentermine/92 mg topiramate extended-release PO daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, anxiety, depression, euphoria, insomnia, irritability, psychosis, restlessness, suicidal ideation, blurred vision, myopia, ocular hypertension, ocular pain, xerophthalmia, arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, dysgeusia, gastroesophageal reflux, hepatic failure, hepatitis, metallic taste, pancreatitis, dizziness, headache, hypoesthesia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Phentermine; topiramate is also contraindicated in any person with a known hypersensitivity or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

Brand Names
  - Qsymia

Dosage Forms
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 11.25mg, Topiramate 69mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 15mg, Topiramate 92mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 3.75mg, Topiramate 23mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Phentermine Hydrochloride 7.5mg, Topiramate 46mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Qsymia 11.25mg-69mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - Qsymia 15mg-92mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - Qsymia 3.75mg-23mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - Qsymia 7.5mg-46mg Extended-Release Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        3.75 mg phentermine; 23 mg topiramate PO once daily for 14 days, then increase the dose to 7.5 mg phentermine; 46 mg topiramate PO once daily. If weight loss is not at least 3% of baseline weight after 12 weeks, increase the dose to 11.25 mg phentermine; 69 mg topiramate PO once daily for 14 days, and then 15 mg phentermine; 92 mg topiramate PO once daily. If weight loss is not at least 5% of baseline weight after another 12 weeks, discontinue therapy as it is not likely meaningful weight loss will be achieved and sustained with continued treatment. To discontinue the 15 mg phentermine; 92 mg topiramate dose, decrease dose to every other day for at least 1 week before stopping treatment altogether, to avoid precipitating a seizure.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        3.75 mg phentermine; 23 mg topiramate PO once daily for 14 days, then increase the dose to 7.5 mg phentermine; 46 mg topiramate PO once daily. If weight loss is not at least 3% of baseline BMI after 12 weeks, increase the dose to 11.25 mg phentermine; 69 mg topiramate PO once daily for 14 days, and then 15 mg phentermine; 92 mg topiramate PO once daily. If weight loss is not at least 5% of baseline BMI after another 12 weeks, discontinue therapy as it is not likely meaningful weight loss will be achieved and sustained with continued treatment. Consider dosage reduction if weight loss exceeds 0.9 kg/week. To discontinue the 15 mg phentermine; 92 mg topiramate dose, decrease dose to every other day for at least 1 week before stopping treatment altogether, to avoid precipitating a seizure.
    Heading
    For the treatment of overweight individuals or obesity to assist with weight loss and for chronic weight management, in conjunction with a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Phentermine; topiramate is also contraindicated in any person with a known hypersensitivity or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines. The Qsymia phentermine; topiramate product, as well as selected generic products for this combination, should be used with caution in individuals who have experienced a severe hypersensitivity reaction to FD and C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) dye. This dye may cause allergic-type reactions (including bronchial asthma) in certain susceptible persons. Although the overall incidence of tartrazine sensitivity in the general population is low, it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity.
    Headline
    hyperthyroidism
    General Information
    Phentermine; topiramate is contraindicated in patients with hyperthyroidism since sympathomimetics like phentermine can exacerbate this condition.
    Headline
    glaucoma
    General Information
    Phentermine; topiramate is contraindicated for use in people with glaucoma. A syndrome consisting of acute myopia associated with secondary angle-closure glaucoma (closed-angle glaucoma) has been reported in pediatric patients and adults treated with topiramate. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity and/or ocular pain. Symptoms typically occur within 1 month of initiating treatment with topiramate but may occur at any time during therapy. The primary treatment is immediate discontinuation of phentermine; topiramate in consultation with the treating physician. Elevated intraocular pressure of any etiology, if left untreated, can lead to serious sequelae including permanent loss of vision. Visual field defects (independent of elevated intraocular pressure) have also been reported. Consider treatment discontinuation if visual defects occur.
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Avoid use of phentermine; topiramate in people with a history of suicidal attempts or active suicidal ideation. Monitor all treated individuals for the emergence or worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, and/or any unusual mood or behavioral changes while taking phentermine; topiramate. Phentermine; topiramate therapy can cause mood disorders, including depression and anxiety, as well as insomnia. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including topiramate may increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. People with a history of depression may be at increased risk of recurrent depression or other mood disorders while taking this product for weight loss or weight management. Consider dosage reduction or discontinuation if clinically significant or persistent symptoms occur. Discontinue phentermine; topiramate in patients who experience suicidal thoughts or behaviors during treatment.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Phentermine; topiramate can cause cognitive dysfunction (e.g., impairment of concentration/attention, difficulty with memory, and speech or language problems, particularly word-finding difficulties). Rapid titration or high initial doses may be associated with higher rates of cognitive events such as attention, memory, and language/word-finding difficulties. Since this treatment has the potential to impair cognitive function, caution patients about driving or operating machinery or performing other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they are aware of how their mental and motor performance are affected. If cognitive impairment persists, consider dose reduction. Consider discontinuation of phentermine; topiramate for symptoms that are moderate to severe, bothersome, or which fail to resolve with dose reduction. Coadministration with alcohol or other CNS depressants may potentiate CNS depression or other centrally-mediated effects. Caution patients against excessive alcohol intake during phentermine; topiramate treatment.
    Headline
    diarrhea, ketogenic diet, pulmonary disease, status epilepticus, surgery
    General Information
    Use phentermine; topiramate with caution under circumstances that may predispose to metabolic acidosis. Topiramate is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor that can promote metabolic acidosis and also hypokalemia. Certain conditions (e.g., severe respiratory disorders or pulmonary disease, status epilepticus, diarrhea, surgery, ketogenic diet, kidney disease) may have an additive risk for metabolic acidosis. Avoid use of phentermine; topiramate with other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors as this may increase metabolic acidosis risk. Measure electrolytes, including serum bicarbonate and potassium, before starting phentermine; topiramate and during treatment. In clinical trials, the peak reduction in serum bicarbonate occurred by week 4, and in most subjects there was a correction of bicarbonate by week 56, without any change to the treatment regimen. However, if persistent metabolic acidosis develops, reduce the dosage or taper to discontinue treatment.
    Headline
    renal disease
    General Information
    The use of phentermine; topiramate in people with renal disease predisposes patients to metabolic acidosis, as topiramate is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Monitor serum bicarbonate at baseline and periodically during topiramate therapy. A lower maximum daily dose of phentermine; topiramate is recommended for people with moderate (CrCl 30 to less than 50 mL/minute) and severe (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) renal impairment. Avoid use of phentermine; topiramate in people with end-stage renal failure on dialysis. Topiramate use has also been associated with kidney stone formation by reducing urinary citrate excretion and increasing urine pH. Caution is advised when considering the use of phentermine; topiramate in people with a history of kidney stones (nephrolithiasis). Patients on a ketogenic diet may be at increased risk for kidney stone formation. An increase in urinary calcium and a marked decrease in urinary citrate was observed in topiramate-treated pediatric patients in a 1-year, active-controlled study. An increased ratio of urinary calcium/citrate increases the risk of kidney stones and/or nephrocalcinosis. Avoid the use of phentermine; topiramate with other drugs that inhibit carbonic anhydrase. Advise patients to increase fluid intake (to increase urinary output), which may decrease the concentration of substances involved in kidney stone formation. Serum creatinine should also be measured prior to starting phentermine; topiramate and during treatment. Phentermine; topiramate can cause an increase in serum creatinine that reflects a decrease in renal function (GFR). The increase usually declines over time but does not return to baseline values. If persistent elevations in serum creatinine occur during treatment, reduce the dosage or discontinue treatment.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use phentermine; topiramate with caution in people with mild and moderate hepatic impairment, due to increased medication exposures. A reduced maximum dosage is recommended for people with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). Avoid use of phentermine; topiramate in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) or hepatic failure due to a lack of study data in these patients.
    Headline
    conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature
    General Information
    Advise phentermine; topiramate recipients and/or their caregivers to monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature during physical activity, especially in combination with other conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature, such as hot weather or during strenuous exercise. Oligohidrosis (decreased sweating), infrequently resulting in hospitalization, has been reported in association with the use of topiramate. Decreased sweating and an elevation in body temperature above normal characterized these cases, and some cases occur after exposure to elevated environmental temperatures. The majority of the reports associated with topiramate have been in pediatric patients. Patients on concomitant medications (e.g., anticholinergics) that predispose them to heat-related disorders may be at increased risk.
    Headline
    substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    It is advisable to use phentermine; topiramate with caution in people with a known history of a substance abuse disorder, including alcohol or drug abuse. Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing phentermine; topiramate as part of a weight reduction and long-term maintenance of body weight program. Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to the amphetamines. Amphetamines and other stimulant drugs have been extensively abused. Abuse of amphetamines and related drugs (e.g., phentermine) may be associated with impaired control over drug use and severe social dysfunction. There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage of these drugs many times higher than recommended.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Obtain a blood chemistry profile that includes blood glucose in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus on antidiabetic medication prior to initiating phentermine; topiramate and periodically during treatment. Use phentermine cautiously in any individual with diabetes mellitus., as insulin or other antidiabetic medication requirements may be altered when using phentermine due to weight loss and/or altered dietary regimens.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Due to the reproductive risk, pregnancy testing is needed in patients who may become pregnant before starting phentermine; topiramate therapy and after that, monthly pregnancy testing is necessary during treatment to identify early pregnancy. There are risks to the fetus associated with early in utero exposure to topiramate. Contraception requirements also exist; individuals of reproductive potential should use adequate and effective contraception during therapy. Topiramate can reduce the efficacy of combination oral contraceptives and is associated with an increased risk of breakthrough bleeding; have patients report any change in their bleeding patterns. However, contraceptive efficacy can be decreased even in the absence of breakthrough bleeding. If phentermine; topiramate is inadvertently used during pregnancy, or if a patient becomes pregnant while on therapy, discontinue treatment immediately and inform the patient of the potential hazard to the fetus.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    In the phentermine; topiramate clinical trials, a total of 254 (7%) of the adults studied were 65 to 69 years of age; no geriatric patients 70 years of age or older were enrolled. Clinical studies did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger adults. In general, dose selection for an older adult patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy.
    Headline
    labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy
    General Information
    Phentermine; topiramate is contraindicated during pregnancy because weight loss during pregnancy may result in fetal harm and there is embryo-fetal risk due to topiramate. Data from pregnancy registries and epidemiologic studies indicate that a fetus exposed to topiramate in the first trimester of pregnancy has an increased risk of major congenital malformations, including but not limited to cleft lip and/or cleft palate (oral clefts), and of being small for gestational age (SGA). When multiple species of pregnant animals received topiramate at clinically relevant doses, structural malformations, including craniofacial defects, and reduced fetal weights occurred in offspring. In the North American Antiepileptic Drug (NAAED) Pregnancy Registry, topiramate-exposed infants had higher rates of major congenital malformations (4.1%) compared to infants exposed to a reference antiepileptic drug (AED) (1.8%) or in infants with mothers without epilepsy and without exposure to AEDs (1.1%). The presence of oral clefts was also higher in infants exposed to topiramate (1.4%) than infants exposed to a reference AED (0.3%) or those with mothers without epilepsy and without exposure to AEDs (0.11%). Topiramate-exposed newborns were also noted to be small for gestational age (defined as less than 10th percentile for body weight) when compared to newborns on a reference AED or born to mothers without epilepsy and without AED exposure (19.7% exposed to topiramate; 7.9% exposed to reference AED; 5.4% without exposure). The Qsymia Pregnancy Surveillance Program is a maternal-fetal outcomes program which monitors pregnancies that occur during therapy; providers and patients are encouraged to report pregnancies to the program by calling 1-888-998-4887. The effect of phentermine; topiramate on labor and obstetric delivery in humans is unknown. The effect of topiramate-induced metabolic acidosis has not been studied in pregnancy; however, metabolic acidosis (from other causes) has been reported to cause decreased fetal growth, decreased fetal oxygenation, and fetal death, and may affect the ability of the fetus to tolerate labor.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Both topiramate and phentermine are present in human milk. There are no data on the effects of topiramate and phentermine on milk production. Diarrhea and somnolence have been reported in breastfed infants with maternal use of topiramate. There are no data on the effects of phentermine in breastfed infants. Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions, including changes in sleep, irritability, hypertension, vomiting, tremor, and weight loss in breastfed infants with maternal use of phentermine, breast-feeding is not recommended during phentermine; topiramate therapy.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Both topiramate and phentermine are present in human milk. There are no data on the effects of topiramate and phentermine on milk production. Diarrhea and somnolence have been reported in breastfed infants with maternal use of topiramate. There are no data on the effects of phentermine in breastfed infants. Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions, including changes in sleep, irritability, hypertension, vomiting, tremor, and weight loss in breastfed infants with maternal use of phentermine, breast-feeding is not recommended during phentermine; topiramate therapy.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when dolutegravir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased dolutegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Acarbose: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with diphenhydramine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with topiramate can decrease dihydrocodeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased dihydromorphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of dihydrocodeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of dihydrocodeine as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of dihydrocodeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Topiramate is a weak inducer of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with doxylamine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with diphenhydramine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with topiramate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with topiramate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of acetazolamide or methazolamide with topiramate. Topiramate is a weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Concomitant use of topiramate with acetazolamide or methazolamide may create a physiological environment that increases the risk of renal stone formation associated with topiramate use. Additionally, through an additive effect, the use of topiramate with agents that may increase the risk for heat-related disorders (acetazolamide and methazolamide), may lead to oligohidrosis, hyperthermia and heat stroke.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) A decrease in the exposures of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were observed in a clinical trial during concurrent use of topiramate. The clinical significance is unknown; however, results of routine blood glucose monitoring should be carefully followed during coadministration of pioglitazone and topiramate to ensure adequate glucose control. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Ambrisentan: (Major) Sympathomimetics, such as phentermine, can antagonize the effects of vasodilators such as ambrisentan when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Amifampridine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phentermine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phentermine may increase the risk of seizures.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for increased amitriptyline-related adverse events during concomitant topiramate use. Concomitant use resulted in an increase in amitriptyline exposure by 12% and may increase the risk for additive CNS depression.
amLODIPine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and amoxapine together with caution and close clinical monitoring. Regularly assess blood pressure, heart rate, the efficacy of weight loss treatment, and the emergence of sympathomimetic/adrenergic adverse events. Carefully adjust dosages as clinically indicated. Amoxapine has pharmacologic activity similar to tricylclic antidepressant agents. Phentermine is a sympathomimetic agent related to the amphetamines and may cause additive sympathomimetic effects when combined with amoxapine. CNS effects, such as dizziness, are also possible.
Amphetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Amphetamines: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Angiotensin II: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Anticholinergics: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs (e.g., anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics) with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents. Monitor for increased CNS effects if coadministering.
Apixaban: (Moderate) Concurrent use of topiramate and anticoagulants, such as apixaban, may increase the risk of bleeding. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials, bleeding was more frequently reported in patients receiving topiramate (4.5%) compared to placebo (2-3%). In those with severe bleeding events, patients were often taking drugs that cause thrombocytopenia or affect platelet function or coagulation.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if topiramate and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for a possible decrease in the efficacy of aprepitant for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer; aprepitant is a CYP3A4 substrate. When a single dose of aprepitant (375 mg, or 3 times the maximum recommended dose) was administered on day 9 of a 14-day rifampin regimen (a strong CYP3A4 inducer), the AUC of aprepitant decreased approximately 11-fold and the mean terminal half-life decreased by 3-fold. The manufacturer of aprepitant recommends avoidance of administration with strong CYP3A4 inducers, but does not provide guidance for weak-to-moderate inducers. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares the same drug interactions.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when arformoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for unusal drowsiness and excessive sedation during concomitant aripiprazole and topiramate use due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with topiramate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when atazanavir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of atazanavir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Atazanavir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when atazanavir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of atazanavir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Atazanavir is a substrate of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with topiramate is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant phentermine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Atovaquone; Proguanil: (Minor) Proguanil is metabolized to cycloguanil by CYP2C19. Potential interactions between proguanil or cycloguanil and other drugs that are CYP2C19 inhibitors are unknown. Use caution when combining atovaquone; proguanil with CYP2C19 inhibitors, such as topiramate.
Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Monitor for anemia and hypoxia if concomitant use of topiramate with belzutifan is necessary due to increased plasma exposure of belzutifan which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of belzutifan as recommended if anemia or hypoxia occur. Belzutifan is a CYP2C19 substrate and topiramate is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibiting drugs, such as topiramate (a weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor) can alkalinize the urine, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting the conversion of methenamine to formaldehyde. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Benzphetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when sympathomimetics are administered with bretylium. The pressor and arrhythmogenic effects of catecholamines are enhanced by bretylium.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Because brexpiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, concurrent use of CYP3A4 inducers such as topiramate may result in decreased plasma concentrations of brexpiprazole. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in brexpiprazole efficacy. An increase in brexpiprazole dosage may be clinically warranted in some patients. Similar precautions apply to combination products containing topiramate such as phentermine; topiramate.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Limit the concomitant use of bromocriptine and a sympathomimetic to 10 days or less. Both medications may increase the risk for blood pressure elevations and tachycardia.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentration before and during concomitant topiramate and loop diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia. Topiramate can increase the risk of hypokalemia through its inhibition of carbonic anhydrase activity and concomitant use with loop diuretics may further potentiate potassium-wasting.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including phentermine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including phentermine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering topiramate with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Topiramate is an inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent, it should not be used in combination with other psychostimulants.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) A topiramate dosage adjustment may be needed during concomitant carbamazepine use. Concomitant administration of topiramate with carbamazepine resulted in a clinically significant decrease (40%) in plasma topiramate concentrations.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of acetazolamide or methazolamide with topiramate. Topiramate is a weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Concomitant use of topiramate with acetazolamide or methazolamide may create a physiological environment that increases the risk of renal stone formation associated with topiramate use. Additionally, through an additive effect, the use of topiramate with agents that may increase the risk for heat-related disorders (acetazolamide and methazolamide), may lead to oligohidrosis, hyperthermia and heat stroke.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and topiramate. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Reserve concomitant prescribing of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as topiramate, for use in patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for increased amitriptyline-related adverse events during concomitant topiramate use. Concomitant use resulted in an increase in amitriptyline exposure by 12% and may increase the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia. (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) Topiramate is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Concurrent use of topiramate with non-potassium sparing diuretics (e.g., thiazide diuretics) may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of these diuretics. Monitor baseline and periodic potassium concentrations during coadministration.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with topiramate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that affect platelet function such as cilostazol may increase the risk of bleeding. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials, bleeding was more frequently reported in patients receiving topiramate (4.5%) compared to placebo (2-3%). In those with severe bleeding events, patients were often taking drugs that cause thrombocytopenia or affect platelet function or coagulation. In addition, cilostazol is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and may interact with medications that are inhibitors of CYP2C19, including topiramate.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Limit the dose of citalopram to 20 mg/day if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase citalopram exposure increasing the risk of QT prolongation. Citalopram is a sensitive CYP2C19 substrate; topiramate is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C19. (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation during concomitant clomipramine and topiramate use due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of clonidine when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for loss of blood pressure control.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) If concurrent use of cobimetinib and topiramate is necessary, use caution and monitor for decreased efficacy of cobimetinib. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A substrate in vitro, and topiramate is a weak inducer of CYP3A. The manufacturer of cobimetinib recommends avoiding coadministration of cobimetinib with moderate or strong CYP3A inducers based on simulations demonstrating that cobimetinib exposure would decrease by 73% or 83% when coadministered with a moderate or strong CYP3A inducer, respectively. Guidance is not available regarding concomitant use of cobimetinib with weak CYP3A inducers.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine. If unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine and vasoconstrictor agents during nasal and sinus surgery. The risk for nervousness, irritability, convulsions, and other cardiac arrhythmias may increase during coadministration.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapsone: (Minor) The metabolism of dapsone may be accelerated when administered concurrently with topiramate, a known inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration is expected to decrease the plasma concentration of dapsone and increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine (a metabolite associated with hemolysis). If these drugs must be administered together, closely monitor for a reduction in dapsone efficacy and signs of hemolytic anemia.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of darunavir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Darunavir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a substrate of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of darunavir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Darunavir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a substrate of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of darunavir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Darunavir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Desflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of the sympathomimetics. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phentermine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation during concomitant desipramine and topiramate use due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as stimulants including phentermine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias. (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with diphenhydramine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and topiramate, another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, together with caution as both drugs can cause metabolic acidosis. Concurrent use may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Serum digoxin AUC was decreased by 12% when coadministered with topiramate. Although the clinical relevance has not been determined, the clinician should be aware that serum digoxin concentrations may be affected when digoxin and topiramate are used concomitantly.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with phentermine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of diltiazem efficacy and an increase in topiramate-related adverse events during coadministration. Concomitant use of diltiazem (240 mg) with topiramate (150 mg/day) resulted in a 10% decrease in Cmax and a 25% decrease in diltiazem AUC, a 27% decrease in Cmax and an 18% decrease in desacetyl diltiazem AUC, and no effect on N-desmethyl diltiazem. Co-administration of topiramate with diltiazem resulted in a 16% increase in Cmax and a 19% increase in AUC of topiramate.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with diphenhydramine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with diphenhydramine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with diphenhydramine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias. (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with diphenhydramine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when dolutegravir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased dolutegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when dolutegravir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased dolutegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when dolutegravir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased dolutegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme. (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering topiramate with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Topiramate is an inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
DOPamine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Doravirine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and topiramate may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and topiramate may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and topiramate may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation during concomitant doxepin and topiramate use due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Topiramate is a mild CYP3A4 inducer; doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4. Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy. Avoid coadministration of topiramate and doxorubicin if possible. If not possible, monitor doxorubicin closely for efficacy.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Topiramate is a mild CYP3A4 inducer; doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4. Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy. Avoid coadministration of topiramate and doxorubicin if possible. If not possible, monitor doxorubicin closely for efficacy.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with doxylamine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with doxylamine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with sympathomimetics may result in additive hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity. Dronabinol, THC has been associated with occasional hypotension, hypertension, syncope, and tachycardia. In a study of 7 adult males, combinations of IV cocaine and smoked marijuana, 1 g marijuana cigarette, 0 to 2.7% delta-9-THC, increased the heart rate above levels seen with either agent alone, with increases plateauing at 50 bpm. (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with topiramate is necessary, and monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; topiramate is a weak inducer of CYP3A4. Concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
Dronedarone: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Topiramate induces CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
droPERidol: (Major) Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents. Monitor for increased CNS effects if coadministering.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Droxidopa: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering elbasvir with topiramate. Topiramate is a mild CYP3A inducer, while elbasvir is a substrate of CYP3A. Use of these drugs together may decrease the plasma concentrations of elbasvir and could result in decreased virologic response. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering elbasvir; grazoprevir with topiramate. Topiramate is a mild CYP3A inducer, while grazoprevir is a substrate of CYP3A. Use of these drugs together may decrease the plasma concentrations of grazoprevir and could result in decreased virologic response.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a substrate of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when elvitegravir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased elvitegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a substrate of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when elvitegravir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased elvitegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Major) Inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g., topiramate) can decrease exposure to linagliptin to subtherapeutic and likely ineffective concentrations. For patients requiring use of such drugs, an alternative to linagliptin is strongly recommended. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Major) Inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g., topiramate) can decrease exposure to linagliptin to subtherapeutic and likely ineffective concentrations. For patients requiring use of such drugs, an alternative to linagliptin is strongly recommended. (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering topiramate with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Topiramate is an inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering topiramate with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Topiramate is an inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
EPINEPHrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with phentermine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with phentermine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and phentermine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as phentermine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day.
Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs (e.g., anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics) with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents. Monitor for increased CNS effects if coadministering.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentration before and during concomitant topiramate and loop diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia. Topiramate can increase the risk of hypokalemia through its inhibition of carbonic anhydrase activity and concomitant use with loop diuretics may further potentiate potassium-wasting.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking topiramate. Topiramate is a CNS depressant. Concomitant administration of topiramate with alcohol can result in significant CNS depression. Trokendi XR is contraindicated with recent alcohol use (i.e., within 6 hours before and 6 hours after use). In the presence of alcohol, the pattern of topiramate release from Trokendi XR is significantly altered. As a result, plasma concentrations of topiramate may be markedly higher soon after dosing and subtherapeutic later in the day.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Etonogestrel: (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of topiramate is necessary. If topiramate is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer like topiramate with fentanyl, a CYP3A4 substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Flibanserin: (Major) The concomitant use of flibanserin with CYP3A4 inducers significantly decreases flibanserin exposure compared to the use of flibanserin alone. Therefore, concurrent use of flibanserin and CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate is not recommended.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant salmeterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be needed during coadministration of topiramate and hydantoins, closely monitor patients appropriately for increased adverse effects or altered clinical response to therapy. Serum phenytoin concentration may be needed for optimal dosage adjustments. Hydantoins have been shown to reduce topiramate serum concentrations. Topiramate may increase phenytoin concentrations through its inhibitory effects on CYP2C19. In some patients receiving phenytoin concurrently with topiramate, plasma concentrations of phenytoin were increased by 25% and topiramate plasma concentrations were decreased by 48%. These patients were generally receiving dosage regimens of phenytoin twice-daily. Other patients experienced a change of less than 10% in phenytoin plasma concentrations. A similar reaction would be expected with fosphenytoin.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentration before and during concomitant topiramate and loop diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia. Topiramate can increase the risk of hypokalemia through its inhibition of carbonic anhydrase activity and concomitant use with loop diuretics may further potentiate potassium-wasting.
Gefitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for clinical response of gefitinib if used concomitantly with topiramate. Gefitinib is metabolized significantly by CYP3A4 and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer; coadministration may increase gefitinib metabolism and decrease gefitinib concentrations. This also applies to combination products containing topiramate, such as phentermine; topiramate. While the manufacturer has provided no guidance regarding the use of gefitinib with mild or moderate CYP3A4 inducers, administration of a single 500 mg gefitinib dose with a concurrent strong CYP3A4 inducer (rifampin) resulted in reduced mean AUC of gefitinib by 83%.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Minor) Coadministration of glyburide with topiramate may decrease systemic exposure to glyburide. A pharmacokinetic drug interaction study evaluated the combination of topiramate and glyburide. Reductions in AUC and Cmax were noted for glyburide and the active metabolites.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Minor) Coadministration of glyburide with topiramate may decrease systemic exposure to glyburide. A pharmacokinetic drug interaction study evaluated the combination of topiramate and glyburide. Reductions in AUC and Cmax were noted for glyburide and the active metabolites.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of the sympathomimetics. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phentermine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with topiramate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be needed during coadministration of topiramate and hydantoins, closely monitor patients appropriately for increased adverse effects or altered clinical response to therapy. Serum phenytoin concentration may be needed for optimal dosage adjustments. Hydantoins have been shown to reduce topiramate serum concentrations. Topiramate may increase phenytoin concentrations through its inhibitory effects on CYP2C19. In some patients receiving phenytoin concurrently with topiramate, plasma concentrations of phenytoin were increased by 25% and topiramate plasma concentrations were decreased by 48%. These patients were generally receiving dosage regimens of phenytoin twice-daily. Other patients experienced a change of less than 10% in phenytoin plasma concentrations. A similar reaction would be expected with fosphenytoin.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with topiramate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with topiramate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Moderate) Monitor persons with epilepsy for seizure activity during concomitant topiramate and hydroxychloroquine use. Hydroxychloroquine can lower the seizure threshold; therefore, the activity of antiepileptic drugs may be impaired with concomitant use.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with hydroxyzine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibiting drugs, such as topiramate (a weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor) can alkalinize the urine, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting the conversion of methenamine to formaldehyde. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Iloprost: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with iloprost. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including iloprost. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Imatinib is a potent inhibitors of cytochrome P450 2C9 and might decrease topiramate metabolism leading to increased topiramate serum concentrations and a risk of adverse reactions.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation during concomitant imipramine and topiramate use due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue sympathomimetics for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart sympathomimetics until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as sympathomimetics, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Iodixanol: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ioflupane I 123: (Major) Hold phentermine for 5 days, or at least 5 medication half-lives, prior to performing dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging with radiolabeled ioflupane. Phentermine binds to the dopamine transporter which may interfere with striatal tracer binding and increase the risk for a false-positive scan.
Iohexol: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iomeprol: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iopamidol: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iopromide: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ioversol: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Caution and close monitoring are warranted when isavuconazonium is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of isavuconazonium. Decreased isavuconazonium concentrations may lead to a reduction of antifungal efficacy and the potential for treatment failure. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a sensitive substrate of this enzyme.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Isoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of the sympathomimetics. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phentermine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when ketamine and phentermine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Phentermine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of ketamine.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Use lacosamide with caution in patients taking concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction including those that prolong PR interval, such as sodium channel blocking anticonvulsants (e.g., topiramate), because of the risk of AV block, bradycardia, or ventricular tachyarrhythmia. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG prior to lacosamide initiation and after treatment has been titrated to steady-state. In addition, monitor patients receiving lacosamide via the intravenous route closely.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of topiramate efficacy and/or an increase in topiramate-related adverse events during coadministration. Coadministration has resulted in both a 13% decrease and 15% increase in topiramate concentrations.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Levamlodipine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and topiramate may decrease lidocaine plasma concentrations. Higher lidocaine doses may be required; titrate to effect. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; topiramate induces CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias. (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and topiramate may decrease lidocaine plasma concentrations. Higher lidocaine doses may be required; titrate to effect. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; topiramate induces CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and topiramate may decrease lidocaine plasma concentrations. Higher lidocaine doses may be required; titrate to effect. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; topiramate induces CYP3A4.
Linagliptin: (Major) Inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g., topiramate) can decrease exposure to linagliptin to subtherapeutic and likely ineffective concentrations. For patients requiring use of such drugs, an alternative to linagliptin is strongly recommended. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Major) Inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g., topiramate) can decrease exposure to linagliptin to subtherapeutic and likely ineffective concentrations. For patients requiring use of such drugs, an alternative to linagliptin is strongly recommended. (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linezolid: (Major) Phentermine should not be administered during or within 14 days following the use of linezolid. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Drugs that possess MAO-inhibiting activity, such as linezolid, can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of phentermine which may invoke a hypertensive reaction. Additonally, phentermine has a weak ability to dose-dependently raise serotonin levels. Linezolid has the potential for interaction with serotonergic agents, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. If coadministration is necessary, closely monitor for increased blood pressure and signs of serotonin syndrome.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant high-dose topiramate use. Lithium concentrations were unaffected during treatment with topiramate 200 mg/day; however, there was an observed increase in systemic exposure of lithium (26%) after topiramate doses up to 600 mg/day.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentration before and during concomitant topiramate and loop diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia. Topiramate can increase the risk of hypokalemia through its inhibition of carbonic anhydrase activity and concomitant use with loop diuretics may further potentiate potassium-wasting.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of topiramate with ritonavir may result in decreased concentrations of ritonavir. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Ritonavir is metabolized by this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and topiramate as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A4 substrate; topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Because lurasidone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, decreased plasma concentrations of lurasidone may theoretically occur when the drug is co-administered with inducers of CYP3A4 such as topiramate.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Maraviroc: (Minor) Use caution if coadministration of maraviroc with topiramate is necessary, due to a possible decrease in maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a CYP3A substrate and topiramate is a CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor for a decrease in maraviroc efficacy with concomitant use.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting topiramate therapy. Avoid initiation of topiramate in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable topiramate therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Mecamylamine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by mecamylamine. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Topiramate induces CYP3A4 and may increase the metabolism of mefloquine if coadministered. Use may reduce the clinical efficacy of mefloquine, increasing the risk of Plasmodium falciparum resistance during treatment of malaria. Coadministration of mefloquine and anticonvulsants may also result in lower than expected anticonvulsant concentrations and loss of seizure control. Monitoring of drug concentrations (if therapeutic monitoring is advised for the anticonvulsant) is recommended. When topiramate is used for other conditions, monitor for clinical efficacy. Mefloquine may additionally cause CNS side effects that may cause seizures or alter moods or behaviors.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs (e.g., anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics) with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents. Monitor for increased CNS effects if coadministering.
Metaproterenol: (Major) Caution and close observation should also be used when metaproterenol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Methamphetamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
methazolAMIDE: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of acetazolamide or methazolamide with topiramate. Topiramate is a weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Concomitant use of topiramate with acetazolamide or methazolamide may create a physiological environment that increases the risk of renal stone formation associated with topiramate use. Additionally, through an additive effect, the use of topiramate with agents that may increase the risk for heat-related disorders (acetazolamide and methazolamide), may lead to oligohidrosis, hyperthermia and heat stroke.
Methenamine: (Moderate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibiting drugs, such as topiramate (a weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor) can alkalinize the urine, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting the conversion of methenamine to formaldehyde.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibiting drugs, such as topiramate (a weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor) can alkalinize the urine, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting the conversion of methenamine to formaldehyde. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibiting drugs, such as topiramate (a weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor) can alkalinize the urine, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting the conversion of methenamine to formaldehyde.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Methyldopa: (Major) Phentermine has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of antihypertensive agents particularly sympatholytic agents such as methyldopa. Concomitant use of phentermine with methyldopa may antagonize the antihypertensive effects of these agents. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between phentermine and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as phentermine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Midodrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed during co-administration of mirtazapine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties. As a drug related to the amphetamines, phentermine has the potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome.
Molindone: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with topiramate. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of topiramate with ritonavir may result in decreased concentrations of ritonavir. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Ritonavir is metabolized by this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with topiramate due to decreased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Norethindrone: (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Norgestrel: (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation during concomitant nortriptyline and topiramate use due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Orlistat: (Moderate) The safety and efficacy of coadministration of phentermine with other products intended for weight loss has not been established.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with topiramate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Coadministration of pazopanib and topiramate may cause a decrease in systemic concentrations of pazopanib. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly. Pazopanib is a substrate for CYP3A4. Topiramate in a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately.
Perampanel: (Moderate) During clinical trials, co-administration of topiramate and perampanel to patients led to a 20% decrease in the AUC of perampanel compared to patients not taking enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs. Topiramate is an inducer of CYP3A4, while perampanel is a substrate of this enzyme. Patients taking topiramate who begin treatment with perampanel should be closely monitored for adverse effects and receive a higher initial dose of perampanel. Addition or withdrawal of enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs may require a perampanel dose adjustment.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for increased amitriptyline-related adverse events during concomitant topiramate use. Concomitant use resulted in an increase in amitriptyline exposure by 12% and may increase the risk for additive CNS depression.
Phendimetrazine: (Contraindicated) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The safety of phendimetrazine when used with other anorexiants such as phentermine is controversial and concurrent use should be avoided. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia. Similarly, phendimetrazine should not be used in combination with OTC preparations and herbal products that may contain ephedra alkaloids or Ma huang.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be needed during coadministration of topiramate and hydantoins, closely monitor patients appropriately for increased adverse effects or altered clinical response to therapy. Serum phenytoin concentration may be needed for optimal dosage adjustments. Hydantoins have been shown to reduce topiramate serum concentrations. Topiramate may increase phenytoin concentrations through its inhibitory effects on CYP2C19. In some patients receiving phenytoin concurrently with topiramate, plasma concentrations of phenytoin were increased by 25% and topiramate plasma concentrations were decreased by 48%. These patients were generally receiving dosage regimens of phenytoin twice-daily. Other patients experienced a change of less than 10% in phenytoin plasma concentrations. A similar reaction would be expected with fosphenytoin.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) A decrease in the exposures of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were observed in a clinical trial during concurrent use of topiramate. The clinical significance is unknown; however, results of routine blood glucose monitoring should be carefully followed during coadministration of pioglitazone and topiramate to ensure adequate glucose control. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) A decrease in the exposures of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were observed in a clinical trial during concurrent use of topiramate. The clinical significance is unknown; however, results of routine blood glucose monitoring should be carefully followed during coadministration of pioglitazone and topiramate to ensure adequate glucose control. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A decrease in the exposures of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were observed in a clinical trial during concurrent use of topiramate. The clinical significance is unknown; however, results of routine blood glucose monitoring should be carefully followed during coadministration of pioglitazone and topiramate to ensure adequate glucose control. (Moderate) Consider more frequent monitoring of patients receiving metformin and concomitant topiramate due to increased risk for lactic acidosis. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as topiramate, frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. In healthy volunteers, metformin Cmax and AUC increased by 17% and 25%, respectively, when topiramate was added, and oral plasma clearance of topiramate appears to be reduced when administered with metformin. The clinical significance of the effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or topiramate are not known. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for respiratory depression and sedation during concomitant topiramate and pregabalin use; consider starting pregabalin at a low dose. Concomitant use increases the risk for additive CNS depression.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Primidone: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately.
Probenecid: (Minor) Probenecid may increase the renal clearance of topiramate resulting in lower topiramate concentrations. Although not evaluated in humans, animal studies using probenecid along with topiramate showed a significant increase in renal clearance of topiramate. This suggests that topiramate may undergo renal tubular reabsorption. Probenecid may block renal tubular reabsorption of topiramate, thus increasing the renal clearance of the drug.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Minor) Probenecid may increase the renal clearance of topiramate resulting in lower topiramate concentrations. Although not evaluated in humans, animal studies using probenecid along with topiramate showed a significant increase in renal clearance of topiramate. This suggests that topiramate may undergo renal tubular reabsorption. Probenecid may block renal tubular reabsorption of topiramate, thus increasing the renal clearance of the drug.
Procarbazine: (Major) Because procarbazine exhibits some monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity, sympathomimetic drugs should be avoided. As with MAOIs, the use of a sympathomimetic drug with procarbazine may precipitate hypertensive crisis or other serious side effects. In the presence of MAOIs, drugs that cause release of norepinephrine induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses. In general, do not use a sympathomimetic drug unless clinically necessary (e.g., medical emergencies, agents like dopamine) within the 14 days prior, during or 14 days after procarbazine therapy. If use is necessary within 2 weeks of the MAOI drug, in general the initial dose of the sympathomimetic agent must be greatly reduced. Patients should be counseled to avoid non-prescription (OTC) decongestants and other drug products, weight loss products, and energy supplements that contain sympathomimetic agents.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Progesterone: (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Progestins: (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation during concomitant protriptyline and topiramate use due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Ramelteon: (Major) Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents. Monitor for increased CNS effects if coadministering.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD and weight loss, non-prescription nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants, and weight loss dietary supplements containing Ephedra. Although sympathomimetics are contraindicated for use with other non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. One case of elevated blood pressure has been reported in a patient during concurrent use of the recommended dose of rasagiline and ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline. One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of another MAO-B inhibitor, selegiline, in combination with ephedrine. It should be noted that the MAO-B selectivity of rasagiline decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose and interactions with sympathomimetics may be more likely to occur at these higher doses.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering topiramate with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Topiramate is an inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Riociguat: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with riociguat. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including riociguat. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of topiramate with ritonavir may result in decreased concentrations of ritonavir. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Ritonavir is metabolized by this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, like topiramate, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phentermine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phentermine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant salmeterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate especially when topiramate is used at a dosage of greater than 200 mg per day. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Topiramate may decrease estrogen hormone concentrations which may decrease efficacy and increase the risk for breakthrough bleeding in patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease ethinyl estradiol exposure by 18%, 21%, and 30% at topiramate daily doses of 200 mg, 400 mg, and 800 mg, respectively. No significant changes in ethinyl estradiol exposure have been observed at topiramate doses of 50 mg to 200 mg per day. (Moderate) Patients taking progestin hormones for contraception may consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for 1 month following discontinuation of topiramate. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Monitor patients taking these hormones for other indications for reduced clinical effect while on topiramate; adjust drug dosage as appropriate based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and topiramate is a CYP3A inducer. Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have generally shown minimal impact on progestin concentrations especially at topiramate doses of 200 mg/day or less.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) The product label for phentermine contraindicates use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk of hypertensive crisis. Phentermine should generally not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. The manufacturers of selegiline products recommend caution and monitoring of blood pressure during concurrent use with sympathomimetics.
Selexipag: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Use phentermine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SSRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of the sympathomimetics. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phentermine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of topiramate. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A inducer.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent, it should not be used in combination with other psychostimulants.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with topiramate. Taking these drugs together may decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate; topiramate is a weak inducer of CYP3A4.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with topiramate. Taking these drugs together may decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate; topiramate is a weak inducer of CYP3A4.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Through an additive effect, the use of topiramate with agents that may increase the risk for heat related disorders, such as solifenacin, may lead to oligohidrosis, hyperthermia, and/or heat stroke.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and phentermine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) The concomitant use of St. John's Wort with phentermine may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if topiramate must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with topiramate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Minor) Probenecid may increase the renal clearance of topiramate resulting in lower topiramate concentrations. Although not evaluated in humans, animal studies using probenecid along with topiramate showed a significant increase in renal clearance of topiramate. This suggests that topiramate may undergo renal tubular reabsorption. Probenecid may block renal tubular reabsorption of topiramate, thus increasing the renal clearance of the drug.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Terbutaline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sympathomimetics with beta-agonists might result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with some sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation and effects such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia. Seizures or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation manifested by skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Through an additive effect, the use of topiramate (a weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor) with agents that may increase the risk for heat-related disorders, such as antimuscarinics, may lead to oligohidrosis, hyperthermia and/or heat stroke.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentration before and during concomitant topiramate and loop diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia. Topiramate can increase the risk of hypokalemia through its inhibition of carbonic anhydrase activity and concomitant use with loop diuretics may further potentiate potassium-wasting.
traMADol: (Moderate) Reserve concomitant prescribing of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as topiramate, for use in patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Reserve concomitant prescribing of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as topiramate, for use in patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Treprostinil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with treprostinil. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including treprostinil. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation during coadministration of phenothiazines and topiramate due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation during concomitant trimipramine and topiramate use due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Trospium: (Moderate) Oligohidrosis and hyperthermia have been reported in post-marketing experience with topiramate. Use caution when topiramate is prescribed with agents known to predispose patients to similar heat-related disorders such as trospium.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and topiramate is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of topiramate and valproic acid has been associated with hyperammonemia with or without encephalopathy in patients who have tolerated either drug alone. In addition, concomitant administration of topiramate and valproic acid has been associated with hypothermia with or without hyperammonemia in patients who have tolerated either drug alone. Assessment of blood ammonia levels may be advisable in patients presenting with symptoms of hypothermia. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as valproic acid, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately. In several case reports, children with localized epilepsy have presented with somnolence, seizure exacerbation, behavioral alteration, decline in speech and cognitive abilities, and ataxia while being treated with a combination of valproate and topiramate. Previously, the children tolerated valproic acid with other antiepileptic drugs. Children presented with elevated serum ammonia, normal or elevated LFTs, and generalized slowing of EEG background activity during encephalopathy, which promptly reverted to normal along with clinical improvement following withdrawal of valproate. The possible mechanism is topiramate-induced aggravation of all the known complications of valproic acid monotherapy; it is not due to a pharmacokinetic interaction. This condition is reversible with cessation of either valproic acid or topiramate.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Vasopressors: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and topiramate may result in decreased concentrations of vemurafenib. Vemurafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Use caution and monitor patients for therapeutic effects.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Use phentermine and vilazodone together with caution; use together might be efficacious for some patients based on available data, provided the patient is on a stable antidepressant regimen and receives close clinical monitoring. Regular appointments to assess the efficacy of the weight loss treatment, the emergence of adverse events, and blood pressure monitoring are recommended. Watch for excessive serotonergic effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome or cardiovascular or pulmonary effects when combined with serotonergic agents. One case report describes adverse reactions with phentermine and the antidepressant fluoxetine. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses, and that phentermine does not additionally increase plasma serotonin levels when combined with other serotonergic agents. In large controlled clinical studies, patients were allowed to start therapy with extended-release phentermine or extended-release phentermine combinations for obesity along with their antidepressants (e.g., SSRIs or SNRIs, but not MAOIs or TCAs) as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior to the initiation of phentermine, and the patient did not have suicidal ideation or more than 1 episode of major depression documented. In analyses of the results, therapy was generally well tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses, based on discontinuation rates and reported adverse events. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal therapies.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and topiramate. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with topiramate, a mild inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro. In addition, concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that affect platelet function such as platelet inhibitors may increase the risk of bleeding. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials, bleeding was more frequently reported in patients receiving topiramate (4.5%) compared to placebo (23%). In those with severe bleeding events, patients were often taking drugs that cause thrombocytopenia or affect platelet function or coagulation.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and vortioxetine together with caution; use together may be safe and efficacious for some patients based on available data, provided the patient is on a stable antidepressant regimen and receives close clinical monitoring. Regular appointments to assess the efficacy of the weight loss treatment, the emergence of adverse events, and blood pressure monitoring are recommended. Watch for excessive serotonergic effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome or cardiovascular or pulmonary effects when combined with serotonergic agents. One case report has been received of adverse reactions with phentermine and the antidepressant fluoxetine. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses, and that phentermine does not additionally increase plasma serotonin levels when combined with other serotonergic agents. In large controlled clinical studies, patients were allowed to start therapy with phentermine or phentermine; topiramate extended-release for obesity along with their antidepressants (e.g., SSRIs or SNRIs, but not MAOIs or TCAs) as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior to the initiation of phentermine, and the patient did not have suicidal ideation or more than 1 episode of major depression documented. In analyses of the results, therapy was generally well tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses, based on discontinuation rates and reported adverse events. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with topiramate is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy; increased bleeding is also possible with the combination. Topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Oligohidrosis and hyperthermia have been reported in post-marketing experience with topiramate. Use caution when topiramate is prescribed with agents known to predispose patients to similar heat-related disorders such as trospium.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs (e.g., anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics) with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents. Monitor for increased CNS effects if coadministering.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs (e.g., anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics) with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents. Monitor for increased CNS effects if coadministering.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Monitor for the appearance or worsening of metabolic acidosis if zonisamide is given concomitantly with topiramate. Concomitant use of zonisamide with another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, like topiramate, may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis and may also increase the risks of hyperammonemia, encephalopathy, and kidney stone formation. Monitor serum ammonia concentrations if signs or symptoms of encephalopathy occur. Hyperammonemia resulting from zonisamide resolves when zonisamide is discontinued and may resolve or decrease in severity with a decrease of the daily dose.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Safety analysis of phentermine; topiramate included 2,318 adult and 223 pediatric patients. Cardiovascular adverse reactions reported for adults receiving placebo compared to increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (3.75 mg/23 mg, 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 15 mg/92 mg, respectively) included: chest discomfort (0.4% vs. 2.1%, 0.2%, and 0.9%) and palpitations (0.8% vs. 0.8%, 2.4%, and 1.7%). The effects of phentermine; topiramate on blood pressure were assessed in a randomized, double-blind, 3-arm 8-week study of adults with obesity or overweight and at least 1 weight-related comorbidity. In the study, phentermine; topiramate doses of 15 mg/92 mg did not demonstrate a pressor effect. During clinical evaluations, a greater number of patients receiving phentermine; topiramate experienced an increased heart rate (sinus tachycardia), with increases from baseline of more than 5, 10, 15, and 20 beats per minute, compared to placebo. The clinical significance of a heart rate elevation with treatment is unclear. It is not known if phentermine; topiramate changes the risk of cardiovascular outcomes or stroke or of death due to heart problems or stroke. Phentermine monotherapy has been associated with hypertension and cardiovascular ischemic events, such as chest pain (unspecified), in postmarketing reports.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anxiety, depression, euphoria, insomnia, irritability, psychosis, restlessness, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Safety analysis of phentermine; topiramate included 2,318 adult patients and 223 pediatric patients. Adverse reactions reported for patients receiving increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (3.75 mg/23 mg, 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 15 mg/92 mg, respectively) and at rates higher than with placebo included: anxiety (3%, 2%, and 3% to 4%), depression (3%, 2% to 3%, and 4%), insomnia (5%, 6%, and 9%), and irritability (2%, 3%, and 4%). Mood and sleep disorder adverse reactions were reported in treated patients with and without a history of depression. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including topiramate may increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. This increased risk with AEDs was observed as early as 1 week after starting drug treatment and persisted for the duration of treatment assessed. Because most trials did not extend beyond 24 weeks, the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior beyond 24 weeks could not be assessed. The risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior was generally consistent among drugs in the data analyzed. The finding of increased risk with AEDs of varying mechanisms of action and across a range of indications suggests that the risk applies to all AEDs used for any indication. The risk for suicidal ideation, thoughts, or behaviors did not vary substantially by age in the clinical trials analyzed. During clinical trials 0.6% of phentermine; topiramate treated pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age reported suicidal ideation and behavior which required hospitalization versus 0% with placebo. Suicidal ideation and behavior has also been reported postmarketing. Monitor all patients for the emergence or worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, and/or any unusual changes in mood or behavior. Discontinue phentermine; topiramate in patients who experience suicidal thoughts or behaviors. Avoid use of this product in patients with a history of suicidal attempts or active suicidal ideation. When used alone for weight control, CNS and psychiatric reactions reported with phentermine use have included overstimulation, restlessness, insomnia, euphoria, dysphoria, and psychosis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    blurred vision, myopia, ocular hypertension, ocular pain, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Safety analysis of phentermine; topiramate included 2,318 adult patients and 223 pediatric patients. Ophthalmic adverse reactions reported for patients receiving placebo compared to increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (3.75 mg/23 mg, 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 15 mg/92 mg, respectively) included: blurred vision (3.5% vs. 6.3%, 4%, and 5.4%), ocular pain (1.4% vs. 2.1%, 2.2%, and 2.2%), and xerophthalmia (0.8% vs. 0.8%, 1.4%, and 2.5%). Blurred vision was listed among adverse events leading to treatment discontinuation. In addition, topiramate alone has been associated with maculopathy during postmarketing surveillance. Further, topiramate alone has been associated with the onset of acute myopia associated with secondary angle closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity and/or ocular pain. Ophthalmologic findings can include myopia, mydriasis, anterior chamber shallowing, ocular hyperemia (redness), choroidal detachments, retinal pigment epithelial detachments, macular striae, and increased intraocular pressure (ocular hypertension). This syndrome may be associated with supraciliary effusion resulting in anterior displacement of the lens and iris, with secondary angle closure glaucoma. Visual field defects, independent of elevated intraocular pressure, have been reported in clinical trials and in postmarketing experience in patients receiving topiramate. Patients with preexisting ocular disease should initiate treatment with extreme caution and monitor for symptoms of increased intraocular pressure. Symptoms typically occur within 1 month of initiating topiramate treatment, but may occur at any time during therapy. The primary treatment to reverse symptoms is immediate discontinuation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myopia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Safety analysis of phentermine; topiramate included 2,318 adult patients and 223 pediatric patients. Musculoskeletal adverse reactions reported for adult patients receiving placebo compared to increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (3.75 mg/23 mg, 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 15 mg/92 mg, respectively) included: back pain (5.1% vs. 5.4%, 5.6%, and 6.6%), muscle cramps (2.2% vs. 2.9%, 2.8%, and 2.9%), musculoskeletal pain (1.2% vs. 0.8%, 3%, and 1.6%), neck pain (1.3% vs. 1.3%, 2.2%, and 1.2%), and pain in extremity (2.8% vs. 2.1%, 3%, and 3%). Musculoskeletal chest pain (0% with placebo, 0% with 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 3% with 15 mg/92 mg), arthralgia (0% with placebo, 2% with 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 4% with 15 mg/92 mg), and ligament sprain (0% with placebo, 4% with 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 2% with 15 mg/92 mg) were reported in pediatric patients receiving phentermine; topiramate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bullous rash, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), edema, erythema multiforme, pemphigus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria
    General Information
    Topiramate monotherapy is contraindicated in people with a history of anaphylactoid reactions to it or any of its components. Immediate (including anaphylaxis and angioedema) and delayed (including facial swelling, lip swelling, periorbital edema, tongue swelling) anaphylactoid reactions, have occurred in people treated with topiramate monotherapy during postmarketing surveillance. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as multiorgan hypersensitivity, has also been reported in people taking topiramate monotherapy. DRESS may be fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling, in association with other organ system involvement, such as hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis, sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its expression, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, the individual should be evaluated immediately. Phentermine; topiramate should be discontinued if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established. Safety analysis of phentermine; topiramate included 2,318 adults and 223 pediatric patients. Dermatological adverse reactions reported for adults receiving placebo compared to increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (3.75 mg/23 mg, 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 15 mg/92 mg, respectively) included: rash (2.2% vs. 1.7%, 2%, and 2.6%) and alopecia (0.7% vs. 2.1%, 2.6%, and 3.7%). During postmarketing surveillance, phentermine alone has been associated with urticaria; topiramate alone has been associated with bullous rash (including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome [SJS], and toxic epidermal necrolysis [TEN]), pemphigus, and urticaria. Discontinue phentermine; topiramate at the first sign of a rash unless clearly not drug related. Do not resume use and consider alternative therapy if signs or symptoms suggest SJS or TEN.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pemphigus
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux, hepatic failure, hepatitis, metallic taste, nausea, pancreatitis, xerostomia
    General Information
    Safety analysis of phentermine; topiramate included 2,318 adult patients and 223 pediatric patients. Commonly reported gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurring at a rate of 5% or more in adults included dysgeusia, constipation, and xerostomia. Reports of dysgeusia were characterized as a metallic taste. Only phentermine; topiramate-treated patients discontinued treatment due to dysgeusia (0.6%). Adverse reactions reported for patients receiving placebo compared to increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (3.75 mg/23 mg, 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 15 mg/92 mg, respectively) included: constipation (6.1% vs. 7.9%, 15.1%, and 16.1%), diarrhea (4.9% vs. 5%, 6.4%, and 5.6%), dysgeusia (1.1% vs. 1.3%, 7.4%, and 9.4%), dyspepsia (1.7% vs. 2.1%, 2.2%, and 2.8%), gastroenteritis (2.2% vs. 0.8%, 2.2%, and 2.5%), gastroesophageal reflux (1.3%, vs. 0.8%, 3.2%, and 2.6%), nausea (4.4% vs. 5.8%, 3.6% to 4%, and 4% to 7.2%), oral paresthesias (0.3% vs. 0.4%, 0.6%, and 2.2%), and xerostomia (2.8% vs. 6.7%, 13.5%, and 19.1%). Upper abdominal pain was reported in 3% of pediatric patients receiving phentermine; topiramate 15 mg/92 mg. Postmarketing, topiramate alone has been associated with pancreatitis, hepatic failure (including fatalities), and hepatitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      metallic taste
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, headache, hypoesthesia, impaired cognition, memory impairment, paresthesias, tremor
    General Information
    Safety analysis of phentermine; topiramate included 2,318 adult patients and 223 pediatric patients. Commonly reported nervous system adverse reactions occurring at a rate of 5% or more in adults included paraesthesia and dizziness. Reports of paresthesia were characterized as tingling in hands, feet, or face. Only phentermine; topiramate-treated patients discontinued treatment due to paresthesias (1%). Headache and dizziness were also listed among events leading to discontinuation. Adverse reactions reported for patients receiving placebo compared to increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (3.75 mg/23 mg, 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 15 mg/92 mg, respectively) included: disturbance in attention (0.6% vs. 0.4%, 2%, and 3.5%), dizziness (3.4% vs. 2.9%, 2% to 7.2%, and 4% to 8.6%), headache (9.3% vs. 10.4%, 7%, and 10.6%), hypoesthesia (1.2% vs. 0.8%, 3.6%, and 3.7%), and paraesthesia (1.9% vs. 4.2%, 2% to 13.7%, and 3% to 19.9%). Impaired cognition was reported in 5% and 7.6% of patients receiving phentermine; topiramate 7.5 mg/46 mg and 15 mg /92 mg, respectively, compared to 1.5% of patients receiving placebo and was comprised primarily of reports of problems with attention/concentration, memory impairment, and language (word finding). These events occurred at any time during treatment. Postmarketing, phentermine alone has been associated with tremor.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, fever, infection, influenza, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Safety analysis of phentermine; topiramate included 2,318 adult patients and 223 pediatric patients. Respiratory related adverse reactions reported for patients receiving placebo compared to increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (3.75 mg/23 mg, 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 15 mg/92 mg, respectively) included: bronchitis (4.2% vs. 6.7%, 4.4%, and 5.4%), cough (3.5% vs. 3.3%, 3.8%, and 4.8%), influenza (4.4% vs. 7.5%, 4% to 4.6%, and 2% to 4.4%), nasal congestion (1.4% vs. 1.7%, 1.2%, and 2%), naso-pharyngitis (8% vs. 12.5%, 10.6%, and 9.4%), pharyngolaryngeal pain (2% vs. 2.5%, 1.2%, and 2.3%), sinus congestion (2% vs. 2.5%, 2.6%, and 2%), sinusitis (6.3% vs. 7.5%, 6.8%, and 7.8%), and upper respiratory tract infection (12.8% vs. 15.8%, 12.2%, and 13.5%). Fever (2% with placebo, 2% with 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 4% with 15 mg/92 mg) and ear infection (0% with placebo, 2% with 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 3% with 15 mg/92 mg) were reported in pediatric patients receiving phentermine; topiramate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysmenorrhea, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, libido increase, nephrolithiasis
    General Information
    Safety analysis of phentermine; topiramate included 2,318 adult patients and 223 pediatric patients. Genitourinary adverse reactions reported for adult patients receiving placebo compared to increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (3.75 mg/23 mg, 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 15 mg/92 mg, respectively) included: dysmenorrhea (0.2% vs. 2.1%, 0.4%, and 0.8%) and urinary tract infection (3.6% vs. 3.3%, 5.2%, and 5.2%). Nephrolithiasis was reported in 0.2% and 1.2% of patients receiving phentermine; topiramate 7.5 mg/46 mg and 15 mg/92 mg, respectively, compared to 0.3% of patients receiving placebo. An increase in urinary calcium and marked decrease in urinary citrate, which is associated with an increased risk of nephrolithiasis and/or nephrocalcinosis, has been reported in pediatric patients treated with topiramate. Postmarketing, phentermine alone has been associated with impotence (erectile dysfunction), and changes in libido (libido increase and libido decrease).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysmenorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nephrolithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue, hyperammonemia, hypothermia
    General Information
    Safety analysis of phentermine; topiramate included 2,318 adult patients and 223 pediatric patients. General adverse reactions reported for patients receiving placebo compared to increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (3.75 mg/23 mg, 7.5 mg/46 mg, and 15 mg/92 mg, respectively) included: decreased appetite (0.6% vs. 2.1%, 1.8%, and 1.5%), fatigue (4.3% vs. 5%, 4.4%, and 3% to 5.9%), procedural pain (1.7% vs. 2.1%, 2.4%, and 1.9%), and thirst (0.7% vs. 2.1%, 1.8%, and 2%). In clinical studies, increased serum creatinine was observed with peak increases after 4 to 8 weeks of treatment in adults and 16 weeks in pediatric patients. On average, serum creatinine gradually declined but remained elevated over baseline creatinine values. The incidence of increases in serum creatinine of 0.3 mg/dL or more for adult patients receiving phentermine; topiramate was 7.2% (7.5 mg/46 mg) and 8.4% (15 mg/92 mg) compared to 2%, placebo. The incidence of increases in serum creatinine of 0.3 mg/dL or more for pediatric patients treated with phentermine; topiramate 7.5 mg/46 mg or 15 mg/92 mg was 17% vs. 0%, placebo. Increases of serum creatinine of 50% or more over baseline occurred in 2% (7.5 mg/46 mg) and 2.8% (15 mg/92 mg) of adult patients receiving phentermine; topiramate compared to 0.6% receiving placebo. Measurement of serum creatinine prior to starting therapy and during treatment is recommended. If persistent elevations in creatinine occur, reduce the dose or discontinue. Topiramate alone has been associated with hyperammonemia and hypothermia; the risk for hyperammonemia appears dose related. In adolescent migraine prophylaxis trials, the incidence of hyperammonemia was 9% for placebo, 14% for topiramate 50 mg/day, and 26% for 100 mg/day. The incidence of markedly increased hyperammonemia (i.e., ammonia values at least 50% higher than the upper limit of normal) was greatest at the 100 mg dose.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperammonemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypothermia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypokalemia
    General Information
    Potassium concentrations should be monitored before initiation and during treatment with phentermine; topiramate. Phentermine; topiramate has been associated with hypokalemia due to the inhibition of carbonic anhydrase activity by topiramate. In clinical studies, the incidence of persistent low serum potassium values (less than 3.5 mEq/L at 2 consecutive visits or at the final visit) for patients receiving increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (7.5 mg/46 mg and 15 mg/92 mg) was 3.6% and 4.9%, respectively vs. 1.1% for those receiving placebo. The incidence of markedly low serum potassium (less than 3 mEq/L, and a reduction from pre-treatment of greater than 0.5 mEq/L) in treated subjects at any time during the trial was 0.2% and 0.7%, respectively; persistent markedly low serum potassium (less than 3 mEq/L, and a reduction from pre-treatment of greater than 0.5 mEq/L at 2 consecutive visits or at the final visit) occurred in 0.2% and 0.1% of those receiving active treatment. Of the subjects who experienced persistent low serum potassium, 88% were receiving treatment with a non-potassium-sparing diuretic. Hypokalemia was not observed in a 56-week clinical trial of pediatric patients with obesity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    metabolic acidosis, osteopenia
    General Information
    Phentermine; topiramate has been associated with metabolic acidosis due to the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor activity of topiramate. In clinical studies, the incidence of persistent treatment-emergent decreases in serum bicarbonate below the normal range (less than 21 mEq/L at 2 consecutive visits or at the final visit) for patients receiving placebo compared to increasing doses of phentermine; topiramate (7.5 mg/46 mg and 15 mg/92 mg) was 2.1% vs. 6.4%, and 12.8%, respectively; the incidence of persistent, markedly low serum bicarbonate values (less than 17 mEq/L on 2 consecutive visits or at the final visit) was 0.1% vs. 0.2% and 0.7%, respectively. In a pediatric clinical trial, 60% to 70% of phentermine; topiramate treated patients experienced a persistent bicarbonate below the normal range (less than 21 mEq/L) compared to 43% of placebo-treated patients. Generally, decreases in serum bicarbonate occurred early in treatment (4-week visit), however severe decreases and decreases later in treatment have occurred. A correction of bicarbonate by week 56 was observed in most subjects. It is therefore prudent to measure baseline and periodic serum bicarbonate, along with other serum chemistries during therapy. If persistent metabolic acidosis develops, reduce the dose or taper to discontinue the dose. Chronic, untreated metabolic acidosis in pediatric patients due to phentermine; topiramate treatment may result in osteomalacia (rickets), osteopenia, and/or osteoporosis with an increased risk for bone fracture, and may also reduce growth rates.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      osteopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      metabolic acidosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    growth inhibition
    General Information
    Chronic, untreated metabolic acidosis in pediatric patients due to phentermine; topiramate treatment may result in osteomalacia (rickets), osteopenia, and/or osteoporosis with an increased risk for bone fracture, and may also reduce growth rates. Phentermine; topiramate is associated with growth inhibition in obese pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age. A lower height velocity of -1.3 to -1.4 cm/year was observed in patients receiving phentermine; topiramate in clinical trials. Periodically monitor for growth inhibition during phentermine; topiramate therapy in children and adolescents. Pediatric patients who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted. Additionally, phentermine; topiramate is associated with less bone mineral acquisition. In a substudy (n = 66) evaluating bone mineralization via dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA), increases in bone mineral density (BMD) at the lumbar spine and total body less head (TBLH) were smaller in pediatric patients treated with phentermine; topiramate compared to those treated with placebo after 1 year of treatment. Declines in BMD Z-scores of -0.5 or greater from baseline for TBLH were observed in 9% of patients receiving phentermine; topiramate 7.5 mg/46mg and 30% of patients receiving 15 mg/92 mg compared to 0% of placebo-treated patients. No patient had a BMD Z-score that went below -2 during the trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      growth inhibition
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal
    General Information
    Physiological dependence and psychological dependence may occur in patients treated with phentermine; topiramate. For topiramate, abrupt discontinuation has been associated with seizures in patients without a history of seizures or epilepsy. For phentermine, abrupt cessation after prolonged high dosage administration results in extreme fatigue and mental depression; changes are also noted on a sleep electroencephalogram. Gradually taper phentermine; topiramate, particularly at a dose of 15 mg/92 mg once daily, to reduce the possibility of precipitating a seizure. In situations where rapid withdrawal is required, appropriate medical monitoring is recommended. Evidence-based data from the literature are relatively limited, and some experts suggest that long-term phentermine pharmacotherapy for obesity does not induce abuse or psychological dependence (addiction), drug craving, and that abrupt treatment cessation within the normal prescription dose range does not induce amphetamine-like withdrawal.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Phentermine; topiramate is a combination product containing an anorectic sympathomimetic amine (phentermine) with topiramate, an antiepileptic drug with weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor activity whose precise role in weight reduction is not known. The combination is used as an adjunct to lifestyle modifications for weight loss and chronic weight management in adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older with obesity and in overweight adults with at least 1 weight-related comorbid condition (e.g., hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, or dyslipidemia). Long-term use of this combination product has been associated with an average weight loss of about 8% to 11% in adults and a 5% to 7% decrease in BMI in pediatric patients. Guidelines from the American Association of Clinical Endocrinology emphasize the importance of individualized and whole-person health in the treatment of people with obesity and adiposity-based chronic disease (ABCD). These guidelines recommend phentermine; topiramate as a first-line option for treatment of individuals with obesity or overweight and comorbid hypertension and as a second-line treatment in those with comorbid type 2 diabetes mellitus, prediabetes metabolic syndrome, and for diabetes prevention. Phentermine; topiramate is also a preferred medication for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea in people with ABCD. Phentermine; topiramate may cause fetal harm (i.e., an increased risk of oral clefts) and therefore the drug is only available via the Qsymia REMS program. Females of reproductive potential require pregnancy testing before initiation of treatment and routinely during treatment. Phentermine; topiramate was initially FDA approved in 2012.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Phentermine; topiramate are used in combination for chronic weight management. The exact mechanism of action responsible for weight reduction with this combination is not known.
Phentermine: Phentermine is a sympathomimetic amine with pharmacologic activity similar to amphetamine. Like amphetamines, phentermine increases the release of norepinephrine and dopamine from nerve terminals and inhibits their reuptake. Thus, phentermine is classified as an indirect sympathomimetic. Other effects include a weak ability to dose-dependently raise serotonin levels, although the effect on serotonin occurs is less potent than that of methamphetamine itself. Other clinical effects include CNS stimulation and potential elevation of blood pressure. The effect of phentermine on chronic weight management is likely mediated by release of catecholamines in the hypothalamus and limbic region, resulting in reduced appetite and decreased food consumption, but other metabolic effects may also be involved. The exact mechanism of action is not known.
Topiramate: The mechanism of action of topiramate on weight reduction and long-term weight management is not known. Its effect on obesity may be due to its effects on both appetite suppression and satiety enhancement, induced by a combination of pharmacologic effects including augmenting the activity of the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyrate, modulation of voltage-gated ion channels, inhibition of AOBMPA/kainite excitatory glutamate receptors, or inhibition of carbonic anhydrase.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Phentermine: After oral administration of a single phentermine; topiramate extended-release (15 mg/92 mg) dose, the Cmax, Tmax, and AUC for phentermine are 49.1 ng/mL, 6 hours, and 1,990 to 2,000 ng x hour/mL, respectively. A high fat meal does not affect exposure. Phentermine exhibits approximately dose-proportional pharmacokinetics throughout the recommended dosing range. Upon dosing phentermine; topiramate to steady state, the mean phentermine accumulation ratios for AUC and Cmax are both approximately 2.5.
Topiramate: After oral administration of a single phentermine; topiramate extended-release (15 mg/92 mg) dose, the Cmax, Tmax, and AUC for topiramate are 1,020 ng/mL, 9 hour, and 61,600 to 68,000 ng x hour/mL, respectively. A high fat meal does not affect exposure. Topiramate exhibits approximately dose-proportional pharmacokinetics throughout the recommended dosing range. Upon dosing to steady state, the mean topiramate accumulation ratios for AUC and Cmax are both approximately 4.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In pharmacokinetic evaluation, phentermine; topiramate extended-release (15 mg/92 mg dose) was studied in patients with varying degrees of hepatic impairment. In patients with mild (Child Pugh Class A) and moderate (Child Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment, phentermine AUC was 37% and 60% higher compared to healthy subjects. Pharmacokinetics of topiramate was not affected in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment. The product has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh Class C).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In pharmacokinetic evaluation, phentermine; topiramate extended-release (15 mg/92 mg dose) was studied in patients with varying degrees of chronic renal impairment. Drug exposures (AUCs) increased with severity of renal impairment. Compared to healthy subjects, phentermine AUC was 91%, 45%, and 22% higher in patients with severe, moderate, and mild renal impairment, respectively; phentermine Cmax was 2% to 15% higher. Compared to healthy subjects, topiramate AUC was 126%, 85%, and 25% higher for patients with severe, moderate, and mild renal impairment, respectively; topiramate Cmax was 6% to 17% higher. The product has not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease on dialysis.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Phentermine; topiramate extended-release exposure in pediatric patients 12 years and older appears comparable to that in adults.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    In clinical trials for phentermine; topiramate, a total of 254 (7%) of the patients were 65 years of age and older; specific pharmacokinetic data for the elderly have not been reported.
  Text
  Phentermine; topiramate extended-release is administered orally.
 
Phentermine: Phentermine is 17.5% plasma protein bound. Phentermine has 2 metabolic pathways, p-hydroxylation on the aromatic ring and N-oxidation on the alipthatic side chain. Although not extensively metabolized, CYP3A4 accounts for the primary mode of metabolism. Approximately 70% to 80% of the parent drug remains unchanged in the urine. Population pharmacokinetic analysis estimates oral clearance (CL/F) at 8.79 L/hour. The mean phentermine terminal half-life is about 20 hours.
Topiramate: Topiramate is 15% to 41% plasma protein bound over the blood concentration range of 0.5 to 250 mcg/mL; as blood concentration increases, the bound fraction of topiramate decreases. Topiramate is not metabolized to a great extent. Six metabolites have been identified and are formed via hydroxylation, hydrolysis, and glucuronidation. None of these metabolites constitutes more than 5% of an administered dose. About 70% of an administered dose is eliminated as unchanged drug in the urine. Population pharmacokinetic analysis estimates oral clearance CL/F is 1.17 L/hour. The mean topiramate terminal half-life is approximately 65 hours.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Extended-release capsules (e.g., Qsymia)
Consistent with good practices, do not open, crush, cut, or chew the extended-release capsules or the capsule contents.
Administer once daily in the morning with or without food.
Avoid late evening administration because of the possibility of insomnia.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    15 mg phentermine/92 mg topiramate extended-release PO daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    15 mg phentermine/92 mg topiramate extended-release PO daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    15 mg phentermine/92 mg topiramate extended-release PO daily.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: 15 mg phentermine/92 mg topiramate extended-release PO daily.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Do not use.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Do not use.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child Pugh Class A): No dose adjustment required.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh Class B): Do not exceed 7.5 mg/46 mg PO once daily.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh Class C): Avoid use.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 50 mL/minute or greater: No dose adjustment required.
CrCl less than 50 mL/minute: Do not exceed 7.5 mg/46 mg PO once daily.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Avoid use in patients with end-stage renal disease on dialysis.
