=== Albuterol — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 11)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Albuterol is a moderately selective short-acting beta-2-receptor agonist (SABA).

Routes: inhalation, oral; Common adult doses: 32 mg/day PO for syrup and tablets; FDA-approved labeling for inhaler recommends not exceeding 12 actuations/day (1,080 mcg/day); FDA-approved labeling for nebulizer solution for oral inhalation recommends not exceeding 4 doses/day (10 mg/day). Higher maximum...

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, erythema multiforme, paradoxical bronchospasm, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome, urticaria, ataxia, drowsiness, dysphonia, edema, excitability, flushing, hyperactivity, hyperhidrosis, hyperkinesis, irritability, malaise, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, restlessness, urinary retention, vertigo, weakness, conjunctivitis, dyspnea, fever, infection, laryngitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Albuterol inhalation powder (i.e., ProAir RespiClick and ProAir Digihaler) is contraindicated in patients with severe milk protein hypersensitivity since the formulation contains...

ALBUTEROL

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Accuneb, ProAir digihaler, Proair HFA, ProAir RespiClick, Proventil, Proventil HFA, Proventil Repetabs, Respirol , Ventolin, Ventolin HFA, Ventolin Syrup, Volmax, VoSpire ER

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of asthma exacerbation

Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation aerosol; e.g., ProAir HFA, Proventil HFA, Ventolin HFA)
Adults


360 to 900 mcg (4 to 10 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 20 minutes for the first hour for mild to moderate exacerbations; reassess after 1 hour and continue as needed based on clinical response.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years


360 to 900 mcg (4 to 10 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 20 minutes for the first hour for mild to moderate exacerbations, reassess after 1 hour and continue as needed based on clinical response.


Infants and Children 1 month to 5 years


360 to 720 mcg (4 to 8 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 20 minutes for 3 doses, reassess and continue dosing every 1 to 4 hours as needed based on clinical response. Alternatively, 360 to 540 mcg (4 to 6 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 20 minutes for 3 doses, then reassess and continue as needed. Delivery should occur with a spacer, with face mask for patients younger than 3 years.


Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation solution)
Adults


2.5 to 5 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 20 minutes for the first hour, then 2.5 to 10 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 1 to 4 hours as needed.


Adolescents


2.5 to 5 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 20 minutes for the first hour, then 2.5 to 10 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 1 to 4 hours as needed.


Children 2 to 12 years


2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 20 minutes for the first hour, then 0.15 to 0.3 mg/kg/dose (Max: 10 mg/dose) inhaled by nebulizer every 1 to 4 hours as needed.


Infants and Children 1 month to 1 year†


2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 20 minutes for the first hour, then 0.15 to 0.3 mg/kg/dose (Max: 10 mg/dose) inhaled by nebulizer every 1 to 4 hours as needed.


For the treatment of transient increase in bronchospasm (e.g., episodic wheezing) as asthma reliever therapy

Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation aerosol; e.g., ProAir HFA, Proventil HFA, Ventolin HFA)
Adults


180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 4 to 6 hours as needed. In some patients, 90 mcg (1 actuation) every 4 hours may be sufficient. Max: 1,080 mcg/day (12 actuations/day).


Children and Adolescents 4 to 17 years


180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 4 to 6 hours as needed. In some patients, 90 mcg (1 actuation) every 4 hours may be sufficient. Max: 1,080 mcg/day (12 actuations/day).


Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation powder; e.g., ProAir RespiClick, ProAir Digihaler)
Adults


180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 4 to 6 hours as needed. In some patients, 90 mcg (1 actuation) every 4 hours may be sufficient. Max: 1,080 mcg/day (12 actuations/day).


Children and Adolescents 4 to 17 years


180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 4 to 6 hours as needed. In some patients, 90 mcg (1 actuation) every 4 hours may be sufficient. Max: 1,080 mcg/day (12 actuations/day).


Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation solution)
Adults


2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer 3 to 4 times daily as needed. Usual Max: 10 mg/day.


Adolescents


2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer 3 to 4 times daily as needed. Usual Max: 10 mg/day.


Children 6 to 12 years weighing 15 kg or more


0.63 or 1.25 mg inhaled by nebulizer 3 or 4 times daily as needed. Those with more severe asthma (baseline FEV1 less than 60% predicted), weight more than 40 kg, or patients 11 to 12 years of age may achieve a better initial response with the 1.25 mg dose. Children weighing at least 15 kg may receive up to 2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer 3 to 4 times daily if needed.


Children 6 to 12 years weighing less than 15 kg


0.63 or 1.25 mg inhaled by nebulizer 3 or 4 times daily as needed. Those with more severe asthma (baseline FEV1 less than 60% predicted) or patients 11 to 12 years of age may achieve a better initial response with the 1.25 mg dose.


Children 2 to 5 years weighing 15 kg or more


0.63 or 1.25 mg inhaled by nebulizer 3 or 4 times daily as needed. Those with more severe asthma (baseline FEV1 less than 60% predicted) may achieve a better initial response with the 1.25 mg dose. Children weighing at least 15 kg may receive up to 2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer 3 to 4 times daily if needed.


Children 2 to 5 years weighing less than 15 kg


0.63 or 1.25 mg inhaled by nebulizer 3 or 4 times daily as needed. Those with more severe asthma (baseline FEV1 less than 60% predicted) may achieve a better initial response with the 1.25 mg dose.


Oral dosage (oral solution or syrup)
Adults


2 to 4 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily. Start with a 2 mg dose in the geriatric adult. If response is inadequate, the dose may be increased gradually with caution, up to 8 mg PO 4 times daily. Max: 32 mg/day. Guidelines recommend against the use of oral short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABAs) due to the slow onset of action and increased risk for side effects. Use inhaled SABAs for acute bronchospasm; do not use oral agents.


Adolescents 15 to 17 years


2 to 4 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily. If response is inadequate, the dose may be increased gradually with caution, up to 8 mg PO 4 times daily. Max: 32 mg/day. Guidelines recommend against the use of oral short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABAs) due to the slow onset of action and increased risk for side effects. Use inhaled SABAs for acute bronchospasm; do not use oral agents.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 14 years


2 mg PO 3 to 4 times per day. If response is inadequate, the dose may be increased gradually with caution. Max: 24 mg/day. Guidelines recommend against the use of oral short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABAs) due to the slow onset of action and increased risk for side effects. Use inhaled SABAs for acute bronchospasm; do not use oral agents.


Children 2 to 5 years


0.1 mg/kg/dose PO 3 times per day. If response is inadequate, may gradually increase, up to 0.2 mg/kg/dose PO 3 times per day. Max: 12 mg/day. Guidelines recommend against the use of oral short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABAs) due to the slow onset of action and increased risk for side effects. Use inhaled SABAs for acute bronchospasm; do not use oral agents.


Infants and Children younger than 2 years†


0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg/dose PO every 8 hours has been used but is not recommended. Use inhaled SABAs for acute bronchospasm; do not use oral agents.


Oral dosage (immediate-release tablets)
Adults


2 to 4 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily. Start with 2 mg per dose in the geriatric patient. If response is inadequate, the dose may be increased gradually with caution, up to 8 mg PO 4 times daily. Max: 32 mg/day. Guidelines recommend against the use of oral short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABAs) due to the slow onset of action and increased risk for side effects. Use inhaled SABAs for acute bronchospasm; do not use oral agents.


Adolescents


2 to 4 mg PO 3 to 4 times per day. If response is inadequate, the dose may be increased gradually with caution. Max: 32 mg/day. Guidelines recommend against the use of oral short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABAs) due to the slow onset of action and increased risk for side effects. Use inhaled SABAs for acute bronchospasm; do not use oral agents.


Children 6 to 12 years


2 mg PO 3 to 4 times per day. If response is inadequate, the dose may be increased gradually with caution. Max: 24 mg/day. Guidelines recommend against the use of oral short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABAs) due to the slow onset of action and increased risk for side effects. Use inhaled SABAs for acute bronchospasm; do not use oral agents.


Oral dosage (extended-release tablets)
Adults


4 to 8 mg ER PO every 12 hours. Start with 4 mg per dose in the geriatric patient. If response is inadequate, the dose may be increased gradually with caution. Max: 32 mg/day. DOSE CONVERSION: 2 mg immediate-release PO every 6 hours = 4 mg extended-release PO every 12 hours. Guidelines recommend against the use of oral short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABAs) due to the slow onset of action and increased risk for side effects. Use inhaled SABAs for acute bronchospasm; do not use oral agents.


Adolescents


4 to 8 mg ER PO every 12 hours. If response is inadequate, the dose may be increased gradually with caution. Max: 32 mg/day. DOSE CONVERSION: 2 mg immediate-release PO every 6 hours = 4 mg extended-release PO every 12 hours. Guidelines recommend against the use of oral short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABAs) due to the slow onset of action and increased risk for side effects. Use inhaled SABAs for acute bronchospasm; do not use oral agents.


Children 6 to 12 years


4 mg ER PO every 12 hours. If response is inadequate, the dose may be increased gradually with caution. Max: 24 mg/day. DOSE CONVERSION: 2 mg immediate-release PO every 6 hours = 4 mg extended-release PO every 12 hours. Guidelines recommend against the use of oral short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABAs) due to the slow onset of action and increased risk for side effects. Use inhaled SABAs for acute bronchospasm; do not use oral agents.


For bronchospasm prophylaxis, including exercise-induced bronchospasm prophylaxis and bronchospasm prophylaxis in persons with cystic fibrosis†

For exercise-induced bronchospasm prophylaxis
Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation aerosol; e.g., ProAir HFA, Proventil HFA, Ventolin HFA)
Adults


180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. A controller agent (e.g., daily inhaled corticosteroid) is recommended to be used along with as-needed and pre-exercise short-acting beta-agonists like albuterol.


Children and Adolescents 4 to 17 years


180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. A controller agent (e.g., daily inhaled corticosteroid) is recommended to be used along with as-needed and pre-exercise short-acting beta-agonists like albuterol.


Children 1 to 3 years†


90 to 180 mcg (1 to 2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth 15 minutes (range: 5 to 20 minutes) before exercise.


Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation powder; ProAir RespiClick, ProAir Digihaler)
Adults


180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. A controller agent (e.g., daily inhaled corticosteroid) is recommended to be used along with as-needed and pre-exercise short-acting beta-agonists like albuterol.


Children and Adolescents 4 to 17 years


180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. A controller agent (e.g., daily inhaled corticosteroid) is recommended to be used along with as-needed and pre-exercise short-acting beta-agonists like albuterol.


For bronchospasm prophylaxis prior to the administration of other inhaled medications in persons with cystic fibrosis†
Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation aerosol; e.g., ProAir HFA, Proventil HFA, Ventolin HFA)
Adults


180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth prior to other inhaled medications, every 8 to 24 hours depending on regimen.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years


180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth prior to other inhaled medications, every 8 to 24 hours depending on regimen.


For the treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (e.g., chronic bronchitis or emphysema)

For the treatment of COPD exacerbation
Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation aerosol or powder; e.g., Proventil HFA, Ventolin HFA, ProAir HFA, ProAir Digihaler)
Adults


90 or 180 mcg (1 or 2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 1 hour for 2 to 3 doses, then 90 or 180 mcg (1 or 2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 2 to 4 hours as needed. The FDA-approved dosage is 180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 4 to 6 hours as needed. In some individuals, 90 mcg (1 actuation of 90 mcg/actuation) every 4 hours may be sufficient. Max: 1,080 mcg/day (12 actuations/day).


Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation solution)
Adults


Optimal dosing is not established.  2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 20 or 60 minutes for 2 hours. Alternatively, 2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 4 hours as needed. The FDA-approved dosage is 2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 6 to 8 hours as needed. Max: 10 mg/day.  


For the treatment of stable COPD
Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation aerosol or powder; e.g., Proventil HFA, Ventolin HFA, ProAir HFA, ProAir Digihaler)
Adults


180 mcg (2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 4 to 6 hours as needed. In some individuals, 90 mcg (1 actuation of 90 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth every 4 hours may be sufficient. Max: 1,080 mcg/day (12 actuations/day).


Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation solution)
Adults


2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 6 to 8 hours as needed. Max: 10 mg/day.


Oral dosage (immediate-release tablets or syrup)
Older Adults


2 mg PO every 6 to 8 hours, initially. Increase the dose step-wise as tolerated if a favorable response is not achieved with the initial dose. Max: 32 mg/day. Inhaled bronchodilators are recommended over oral bronchodilators.


Adults


2 to 4 mg PO every 6 to 8 hours, initially. Increase the dose step-wise as tolerated if a favorable response is not achieved with the initial dose. Max: 32 mg/day. Inhaled bronchodilators are recommended over oral bronchodilators.


Oral dosage (extended-release)
Adults


4 to 8 mg PO every 12 hours. Increase the dose step-wise as tolerated if a favorable response is not achieved with the initial dose. Max: 32 mg/day. Inhaled bronchodilators are recommended over oral bronchodilators.


For adjunctive treatment of neonatal respiratory illness, such as those with suspected airway reactivity†, bronchopulmonary dysplasia†, or chronic lung disease (CLD)†

Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation solution)
Neonates†


1.25 to 2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer was the most common dose reported in a survey of 68 academic medical center neonatal intensive care units (NICUs). While significantly less common, weight-based dosing of 0.05 to 0.1 mg/kg/dose was also reported by some NICUs as their usual dose. Published reports describe a wide range of effective doses; 0.2 to 5 mg/dose and 0.02 to 0.2 mg/kg/dose administered every 4 to 8 hours have been reported to improve pulmonary compliance and/or resistance in ventilator-dependent neonates. The optimal frequency of administration has not been clearly defined in the neonatal population. Of note, significantly larger doses of albuterol are used in nebulization when compared to administration with metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) due to the inefficiency of nebulized drug delivery.


Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation aerosol)
Neonates†



90 to 180 mcg (1 to 2 actuations of 90 mcg/actuation) via the inspiratory limb of the mechanical ventilator circuit appeared to improve pulmonary mechanics in ventilator-dependent neonates. In a survey of 68 academic medical center neonatal intensive care units (NICUs), 95% reported 1 to 2 actuations as the average dose used. Frequency of administration has not been clearly defined in the neonatal population. Of note, MDIs with inline spacers have demonstrated superior drug delivery when compared to jet nebulizers in simulated neonatal lung models.


Oral dosage (oral solution or syrup)
Neonates†


Limited data. 0.15 mg/kg/dose enterally every 8 hours for 96 hours improved pulmonary resistance in ventilator-dependent premature neonates at risk for developing chronic lung disease (n = 30). Major cardiovascular side effects did not occur; heart and respiratory rate increases were deemed clinically unimportant by investigators.


For the treatment of hyperkalemia†

Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation solution)
Adults


10 to 20 mg inhaled by nebulizer as a single dose.


Children and Adolescents weighing more than 50 kg


10 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 20 minutes for 1 to 2 doses.


Children and Adolescents weighing 25 to 50 kg


5 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 20 minutes for 1 to 2 doses. In a small study (n = 11), doses were repeated every 2 hours as needed.


Children weighing less than 25 kg


2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 20 minutes for 1 to 2 doses. In a small study (n = 11), doses were repeated every 2 hours as needed.


Infants


2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 20 minutes for 1 to 2 doses. In a small study (n = 11), doses were repeated every 2 hours as needed. Smaller doses for younger/premature infants may be necessary (e.g., 0.4 mg every 2 hours).


Neonates


0.4 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 2 hours as needed until serum potassium concentration is less than 5 mmol/L or adverse effects occur. Max: 4.8 mg.


For the treatment of respiratory symptoms in anaphylaxis† not responding to epinephrine

Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation solution)
Adults


2.5 to 5 mg inhaled by nebulizer; repeat every 15 minutes as necessary.


Children and Adolescents


2.5 mg inhaled by nebulizer; repeat every 15 minutes as necessary.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Albuterol inhalation powder (i.e., ProAir RespiClick and ProAir Digihaler) is contraindicated in patients with severe milk protein hypersensitivity since the formulation contains lactose, which contains milk proteins.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Increased albuterol use (more than 2 days/week, not including exercise-induced bronchospasm) may indicate asthma destabilization. Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or weeks. If deterioration of asthma occurs appropriate evaluation of the patient and the treatment strategy is warranted, giving special consideration to corticosteroid therapy. Albuterol has no anti-inflammatory activity and is not a substitute for inhaled or oral corticosteroid therapy. The use of beta-agonists alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients. Early consideration should be given to adding anti-inflammatory agents (e.g., corticosteroids) to the therapeutic regimen. Corticosteroids should not be stopped or reduced when albuterol therapy is instituted.

diabetes mellitus, diabetic ketoacidosis


Use albuterol with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus. Large doses of intravenous racemic albuterol have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and diabetic ketoacidosis. Also, patients with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) typically have a severe electrolyte imbalance. Serum potassium concentrations must be closely monitored during the treatment of DKA and albuterol may contribute to changes in serum potassium concentrations.


hyperthyroidism, seizure disorder


Use albuterol with caution in patients with a history of seizure disorder, hyperthyroidism, or unusual responsiveness to other sympathomimetic amines.


cardiac arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, hypertension


Monitor heart rate and blood pressure in patients receiving high doses of albuterol for acute asthma exacerbations; cardiovascular adverse reactions are more likely to occur when aggressive doses are used. Use albuterol with caution in patients with cardiovascular disease, especially coronary insufficiency (coronary artery disease), cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Albuterol can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, and cardiac arrhythmias, such as supraventricular tachycardia and extrasystoles. If such effects occur, albuterol may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiographic (ECG) changes, such as flattening of the T wave, QT prolongation, and ST segment depression, although the clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Use albuterol with caution in individuals with hypokalemia. Beta-adrenergic agonist therapies like albuterol may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects. The decrease is usually transient, not requiring supplementation.


labor, pregnancy


Available data from published epidemiological studies and postmarketing case reports of pregnancy outcomes following inhaled albuterol use do not consistently demonstrate a risk of major birth defects or miscarriage. Poorly controlled or moderately controlled asthma increases the risk of preeclampsia in the mother and prematurity, low birth weight, and small for gestational age in the neonate. Pregnant people with asthma should be closely monitored and medication adjusted as necessary to maintain optimal control. The National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) Asthma and Pregnancy Working Group include short-acting inhaled beta-2 agonists (SABAs) as first-line therapy for mild intermittent asthma during pregnancy. Inhalation therapy is preferred to oral albuterol treatment. Albuterol is preferred over other SABAs due to extensive safety-related information during pregnancy. However, there is no evidence of fetal injury with the use of other inhaled SABAs; maintaining a previously established treatment regimen may be more beneficial to the patient. Due to the potential for beta-agonist interference with uterine contractility, the use of albuterol for acute relief of bronchospasm during labor and delivery should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risks. Additionally, albuterol is not approved for the management of preterm labor; serious adverse events, including pulmonary edema, have been reported after treatment of premature labor with beta-2 agonists. A pregnancy registry is available to monitor pregnancy outcomes in people exposed to asthma medication. To enroll in MotherToBaby Pregnancy Studies' Asthma and Pregnancy Study, patients should call 1-877-311-8972 or visit www.mothertobaby.org/ongoing-study/asthma.


breast-feeding


Inhaled albuterol is compatible with breast-feeding. Plasma concentrations of albuterol after inhalation of therapeutic doses are very low in humans and substantially lower than systemically-administered albuterol. If present in breast milk, albuterol has low oral bioavailability in the infant. Inhaled albuterol therapy is preferred over oral treatment.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data from published epidemiological studies and postmarketing case reports of pregnancy outcomes following inhaled albuterol use do not consistently demonstrate a risk of major birth defects or miscarriage. Poorly controlled or moderately controlled asthma increases the risk of preeclampsia in the mother and prematurity, low birth weight, and small for gestational age in the neonate. Pregnant people with asthma should be closely monitored and medication adjusted as necessary to maintain optimal control. The National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) Asthma and Pregnancy Working Group include short-acting inhaled beta-2 agonists (SABAs) as first-line therapy for mild intermittent asthma during pregnancy. Inhalation therapy is preferred to oral albuterol treatment. Albuterol is preferred over other SABAs due to extensive safety-related information during pregnancy. However, there is no evidence of fetal injury with the use of other inhaled SABAs; maintaining a previously established treatment regimen may be more beneficial to the patient. Due to the potential for beta-agonist interference with uterine contractility, the use of albuterol for acute relief of bronchospasm during labor and delivery should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risks. Additionally, albuterol is not approved for the management of preterm labor; serious adverse events, including pulmonary edema, have been reported after treatment of premature labor with beta-2 agonists. A pregnancy registry is available to monitor pregnancy outcomes in people exposed to asthma medication. To enroll in MotherToBaby Pregnancy Studies' Asthma and Pregnancy Study, patients should call 1-877-311-8972 or visit www.mothertobaby.org/ongoing-study/asthma.


Interactions

Acebutolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Albuterol may cause additive hypokalemia when coadministered with carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. These combinations can lead to symptomatic hypokalemia and associated ECG changes in some susceptible individuals. Monitoring of potassium levels would be advisable.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and epinephrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Atomoxetine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and epinephrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Moderate) Albuterol may cause additive hypokalemia when coadministered with carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. These combinations can lead to symptomatic hypokalemia and associated ECG changes in some susceptible individuals. Monitoring of potassium levels would be advisable.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Additive effects and increased toxicity might be observed when using cocaine with beta-agonists, which are sympathomimetic agents. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive adrenergic stimulation and side effects, such as nervousness, insomnia, palpitations, or adverse cardiovascular effects.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and albuterol together with caution. Metabolic acidosis has been reported with dichlorphenamide and albuterol aerosol and inhalation solution. Concurrent use may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Mean decreases of 16% and 22% in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single-dose intravenous and oral administration of racemic albuterol, respectively, to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days. The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol or levalbuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear. The manufacturer of digoxin recommends measuring serum digoxin concentrations prior to initiation of albuterol or levalbuterol. Continue monitoring during concomitant treatment and increase the digoxin dose by 20 to 40% as necessary.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
DOBUTamine: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
DOPamine: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Doxapram: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and epinephrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Isoproterenol: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and epinephrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Linezolid may enhance the hypertensive effect of beta-agonists. Closely monitor for increased blood pressure during coadministration. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic agents, such as the beta-agonists.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and lisdexamfetamine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Methacholine: (Major) Discontinue use of short-acting beta-agonists 6 hours before a methacholine challenge test. Beta-agonists inhibit the airway response to methacholine.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Albuterol may cause additive hypokalemia when coadministered with carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. These combinations can lead to symptomatic hypokalemia and associated ECG changes in some susceptible individuals. Monitoring of potassium levels would be advisable.
metOLazone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Mobocertinib: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and short-acting beta-agonists although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for QT/QTc prolongation may be greater with long-acting beta-agonists than short-acting beta-agonists.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and phentermine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and epinephrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Procarbazine: (Major) Procarbazine has MAOI activity and the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. Although no data are available, procarbazine may interact similarly. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-agonists are administered within two weeks of stopping the MAOI.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using prescription beta-agonists for the treatment of asthma should generally avoid the concurrent use of racepinephrine inhalation since additive cardiovascular and nervous system adverse effects are possible, some which may be undesirable.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetic agents was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and respiratory adrenergic agents (e.g., the beta-agonists). Although sympathomimetic agents are contraindicated for use with traditional non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. However, the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. At least one case of hypertension occurred in a patient with previous episodes of high blood pressure who was receiving albuterol and selegiline, a selective MAOI related to rasagiline, concurrently. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-2 agonists are administered during or within 2 weeks of use of an MAOI.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, ((e.g., theophylline and aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated. (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, (e.g., theophylline, aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

The most common adverse reactions associated with albuterol use are related to its sympathomimetic effects, although certain cardiovascular effects may be less common with albuterol than with sympathomimetics that have less selectivity for beta2-adrenergic receptors. In general, the sympathomimetic effects of albuterol are dose-related and are more frequent with oral formulations than with inhalational dosage forms.

angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), hyperglycemia, hypertension, hypokalemia, hypotension, palpitations, peripheral vasodilation, QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia, ST-T wave changes, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)


Like other sympathomimetics, albuterol can cause various adverse cardiovascular effects. Although incidences of the adverse effects are often unavailable, systemic albuterol formulations are generally expected to have a higher incidence of adverse effects compared to inhaled formulations. Hypertension (1% to less than 5% incidence from data of various inhaled formulations), angina, palpitations (less than 1% to less than 10%, various formulations), sinus tachycardia (1% to 10%), chest pain (unspecified) (less than 3%), or arrhythmia exacerbation or precipitation have been reported, especially in patients with preexisting cardiovascular disease. Peripheral vasodilation (e.g., hypotension) can also occur from beta-2 stimulation of the vasculature. Albuterol can produce clinically significant cardiovascular effects in some patients, as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of albuterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, ST-T wave changes (e.g., flattening of the T wave, ST segment depression) and QT prolongation. Arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), and extrasystole have been reported with albuterol use. Cardiac effects may be related to sympathomimetic effects and/or beta-agonist-induced hypokalemia. Albuterol can cause hyperglycemia and hypokalemia. Both of these effects occur from stimulation of beta-2 receptors, resulting in gluconeogenesis and intracellular movement of potassium. These effects occur most commonly with inhalation (via nebulization) of relatively large doses of albuterol (e.g., 5 to 10 mg).


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, erythema multiforme, paradoxical bronchospasm, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria


Paradoxical bronchospasm can occur after treatment with albuterol and can be life-threatening. If this occurs, discontinue albuterol immediately and provide supportive care as necessary. Paradoxical bronchospasm, when it occurs, frequently occurs with the first use of a new canister or vial of inhaled formulations of albuterol. Rare cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with beta-agonist therapy. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of racemic albuterol, as demonstrated by rare cases of anaphylaxis, angioedema, bronchospasm, oropharyngeal swelling, rash, and urticaria. Stevens-Johnson syndrome and erythema multiforme have been reported rarely in children who received albuterol. In clinical trials of albuterol inhalation, bronchospasm (8% to 15.4%), asthma exacerbation, allergic reactions (0.9% to 6%), and urticaria (0.9% to 1.7%) were reported. Use of albuterol inhalation solution produces adverse effects similar to those observed with the inhalation aerosol. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs in patients with asthma. The exact cause of death is unknown, but cardiac arrest after an unexpected development of a severe acute asthmatic crisis and subsequent hypoxia is suspected.


abdominal pain, agitation, anxiety, cough, diarrhea, dizziness, dyspepsia, emotional lability, epistaxis, eructation, flatulence, headache, hoarseness, insomnia, migraine, nausea, nightmares, throat irritation, tooth discoloration, tremor, vomiting, xerostomia


Central nervous system (CNS) adverse reactions are common with the use of both oral and inhaled albuterol. Tremor is one of the most common adverse effects and has been reported in less than 1% to 20% of patients who received inhaled albuterol in clinical trials. In controlled trials of albuterol oral extended-release tablets, tremor was reported in 24.2% of patients overall; however, the incidence of tremor increased with increasing age with up to 37.9% of adults aged 41 to 50 years experiencing tremor. Other adverse effects associated with albuterol use include headache (3% to 7% with inhaled formulations, 18.8% with extended-release tablet), migraine (1% to 2%), nervousness (1% to 15%), dizziness (3% to 7% and less than 5% with inhaled formulations, 1.5% with extended-release tablets), and insomnia (1% to 3.1%). Anxiety (less than 3%) and nightmares (1%) have also been reported with some formulations of albuterol inhalation aerosol. Emotional lability was reported in 1% of children 2 to 6 years of age receiving albuterol oral solution and agitation, aggressive behavior, and lightheadedness were reported in 1% or less of children 4 to 11 years of age receiving albuterol inhalation aerosol. Gastrointestinal (GI) adverse effects associated with both oral and inhaled albuterol include nausea (less than 15%) and vomiting (4.2% to 7%). Throat irritation (6% to 10%), dyspepsia (less than 5%), abdominal pain (3%), diarrhea (less than 3%), tooth discoloration (1%), eructation (less than 3%), and flatulence (less than 3%) have all been reported with inhaled albuterol therapy. Appetite stimulation (3%), abdominal pain (less than 1%), and decreased appetite (1%) have been reported in clinical trials of patients receiving albuterol oral solution. Dry mouth (xerostomia) (less than 3%), throat hoarseness, and unusual taste have also been reported with albuterol therapy. Other adverse effects occurring with albuterol therapy include epistaxis (1% to 3%) and cough (5% or less).


ataxia, drowsiness, dysphonia, edema, excitability, flushing, hyperactivity, hyperhidrosis, hyperkinesis, irritability, malaise, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, restlessness, urinary retention, vertigo, weakness


Musculoskeletal pain (3% to 5%), hyperkinesis (4% or less), weakness (2% or less), malaise (1.5%), ataxia (less than 3%), vertigo (less than 3%), rigors (less than 3%), edema (less than 3%), increased sweating (hyperhidrosis) (less than 3%), drowsiness (less than 3%), dysphonia (less than 3%, inhaled formulations) and excitability (2%) have been reported with albuterol use during clinical trials. Some adverse effects appear to occur more frequently in young children (2 to 6 years of age) than in older children or adults especially excitability, which occurred in roughly 20% of young children receiving albuterol oral solution in clinical trials. Muscle cramps (2.7% or less) have been reported with inhaled and oral dosage forms. In controlled trials of albuterol extended-release tablets, the incidence of muscle cramps increased with age (12 to 20 years, 1.2%; 21 to 30 years, 2.6%; 31 to 50 years, 6.9%). Less frequent adverse reactions occurring in less than 1% of patients include flushing, restlessness, irritability, and urinary retention. Hyperactivity has been reported with postmarketing experience. A case of hypokalemic periodic muscle paralysis, possibly precipitated by inhaled albuterol, was reported in a patient with a medical history of hypokalemic periodic paralysis (HPP).


metabolic acidosis


Metabolic acidosis has been reported in post-marketing experience with albuterol inhalation solution and aerosol. A causal relationship has not been established. The potential for this effect following the use of oral albuterol dosage forms is unknown.


conjunctivitis, dyspnea, fever, glossitis, infection, laryngitis, lymphadenopathy, nasal congestion, otalgia, pharyngitis, rhinitis, tinnitus, wheezing


Infectious and respiratory adverse effects have been reported with inhaled albuterol therapy. In clinical trials of Accuneb (albuterol solution for nebulizer inhalation), otitis media (0.9% to 4.3% vs 0% placebo), gastroenteritis (0.9% to 3.4% vs 0.9% placebo), cold symptoms (3.4% vs 1.7% placebo), flu syndrome (2.6% vs 1.7% placebo), lymphadenopathy (0.9% to 2.6% vs 1.7% placebo), skin/appendage infection (1.7% vs 0% placebo), and bronchitis (0.9% to 1.7% vs 0.9% placebo) were all reported. Other infectious and respiratory adverse events reported with inhaled albuterol therapy include respiratory tract infection (7% to 21%), pharyngitis (7% to 14%), rhinitis (4% to 16%), fever (6%, reported with albuterol HFA MDI formulation), dyspnea (less than 3%), laryngitis (less than 3%, reported with inhalational formulations), ear disorder (less than 3%), ear pain or otalgia (less than 3%), glossitis (less than 3%), tinnitus (less than 3%), urinary tract infection (less than 3%), increased sputum (1.5%), wheezing (1% to 1.5%), nasopharyngitis (2%), oropharyngeal pain (2%), and nasal congestion (1%). Conjunctivitis has also been reported in 1% of patients receiving albuterol oral solution. Eye irritation may occur if formulations for inhalation are inadvertently sprayed in the eyes; patients should prime inhalers into the air and away from the eyes or face.


Description

Albuterol is a moderately selective short-acting beta-2-receptor agonist (SABA). Outside the U.S., albuterol is referred to as salbutamol. Albuterol is a racemic mixture of R- and S-isomers, and is widely used as a bronchodilator. The R-enantiomer is the therapeutically active moiety. It is indicated for the management of asthma and acute bronchospasm due to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It is also used off-label as an adjuvant treatment for hyperkalemia in certain clinical situations. When compared to non-selective beta-agonists like terbutaline, albuterol produces equivalent bronchodilation with less cardiac stimulation. Orally inhaled SABA is the standard bronchodilator for treating acute asthma exacerbations across all age populations. As a maintenance reliever, however, SABA alone is not recommended; guidelines instead favor SABA combined with anti-inflammatory treatment, either as inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)-formoterol reliever therapy (preferred in adults/adolescents) or combination ICS-SABA. In children 6 to 11 years, evidence similarly supports as-needed ICS-formoterol over SABA alone, though this option isn't as firmly established as in adults. SABA remains the primary reliever for children 5 years and younger, where combination-reliever options aren't established. SABA also prevents exercise-induced bronchospasm (EIB) when taken before exercise; however, tolerance to this protective effect can develop with regular (more than once-daily) use, and the incidence of EIB can usually be reduced with maintenance ICS therapy. Although historically a trial of albuterol was an option for infants and young children presenting with bronchiolitis, this practice is no longer recommended due to a lack of clinical benefit. SABAs are recommended for rapid relief of intermittent COPD symptoms and as initial bronchodilator therapy during acute COPD exacerbations. SABAs may be used as needed in individuals with occasional dyspnea and are commonly continued as rescue therapy in individuals receiving maintenance treatment with long-acting bronchodilators. Although long-acting bronchodilators are preferred for regular maintenance therapy, regular and as-needed SABA use improves FEV1 and symptoms in individuals with COPD. Due to the increased risks associated with systemic therapy, the use of oral albuterol is not recommended; inhalation therapy is preferred for both asthma and COPD. Albuterol has been FDA-approved since 1981.

Mechanism Of Action

Albuterol is a moderately selective beta2-adrenergic agonist that stimulates receptors of the smooth muscle in the lungs, uterus, and vasculature supplying skeletal muscle. Albuterol is racemic beta-agonist, comprised of an equal mixture of R- and S-isomers. The R-isomer, known as levalbuterol, is primarily responsible for bronchodilation. Although not confirmed during clinical trials, the S-isomer of albuterol has bronchoconstrictive properties in animal models. Intracellularly, the actions of albuterol are mediated by cyclic AMP, the production of which is augmented by beta2-stimulation. Albuterol is believed to work by activating adenylate cyclase, the enzyme responsible for generating cyclic AMP, an intracellular mediator. Increased cyclic AMP leads to activation of protein kinase A, which inhibits phosphorylation of myosin and lowers intracellular ionic calcium concentrations, resulting in relaxation. The net result of beta2-receptor agonism in the lungs is relaxation of bronchial and tracheal smooth muscles, which in turn relieves bronchospasm, reduces airway resistance, facilitates mucous drainage, and increases vital capacity. Albuterol can also inhibit the degranulation and subsequent release of inflammatory autocoids from mast cells. Stimulation of beta2-receptors on peripheral vascular smooth muscle can cause vasodilation and a modest decrease in diastolic blood pressure. Albuterol is an effective adjunctive treatment for hyperkalemia; beta2-adrenergic stimulation results in intracellular accumulation of serum potassium due to stimulation of the Na/K ATPase pump, leading to moderate degrees of hypokalemia.

Pharmacokinetics

Albuterol can be administered as oral tablets or oral solution but is more commonly administered by oral inhalation. Albuterol crosses the blood-brain barrier and may cross the placenta. The liver metabolizes albuterol extensively to inactive compounds. Excretion of albuterol occurs through the urine and feces. The elimination half-life of albuterol ranges from 2.7 to 6 hours, with orally administered albuterol having a shorter half-life than the inhaled product.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

When administered orally, albuterol is well absorbed through the GI tract. Onset of action begins within 30 minutes, peak levels are reached in 2 to 3 hours, and duration of action is 4 to 6 hours for the conventional-release tablets and 8 to 12 hours for the sustained-release product. After oral administration, 75% of a dose is excreted in urine within 72 hours as metabolites; 4% may be found in feces.
 
Immediate-release formulations
Immediate-release albuterol is rapidly absorbed after oral administration, obtaining Cmax (14 to 18 ng/mL) within 2 to 3 hours. Onset of pulmonary improvement can usually be seen within 30 minutes. Clinically significant improvement (defined as maintaining at least a 15% increase in FEV1 and a 20% increase in mid-expiratory flow rate over baseline) was recorded for up to 6 hours in a controlled clinical trial of 55 children. Elimination half-life is 5 hours.
 
Extended-release formulations
The bioavailability of extended-release (ER) tablets is 100% relative to the immediate-release (IR) tablets at steady state. Albuterol ER has a lower mean Cmax (14 ng/mL) and longer Tmax (6 hours) when compared to IR formulations. Fluctuations in plasma concentrations are similar for albuterol extended-release tablets administered at 12-hour intervals and immediate-release tablets administered at 6-hour intervals. AUC for both formulations is similar (130 ng x hr/mL). Elimination half-life of the ER formulation is approximately 9 hours. Food decreases the rate of absorption without altering the extent of bioavailability. Single dose studies have indicated administration with food causes a more gradual increase in the fraction of the dose absorbed compared to fasting conditions.

Inhalation Route

Following oral inhalation, albuterol is absorbed over several hours from the respiratory tract. It is postulated from studies with other inhaled bronchodilators that most of an albuterol inhaled dose (approximately 90%) is swallowed and absorbed through the GI tract. The systemic exposure in children 6 to 11 years of age is similar to that of adults after 180 mcg single dose oral inhalation. Onset of bronchodilation occurs within 5 to 15 minutes after oral inhalation, peaks in 0.5 to 2 hours, and lasts 2 to 6 hours. Administration via nebulization does not appear to significantly alter the pharmacokinetics of albuterol. After oral inhalation, 80% to 100% of a dose is excreted via the kidneys within 72 hours; 10% to 20% may be eliminated in feces.

Renal Impairment

The pharmacokinetics of albuterol were studied in a small number of subjects with creatinine clearances between 7 to 53 mL/minute in comparison to healthy volunteers. The half-life was unchanged; however albuterol clearance was decreased by 67% in those with renal impairment. The manufacturer (specifically of ProAir HFA) recommends caution during administration of high doses of inhaled albuterol to patients with renal impairment.

Pediatrics

Immediate-release formulations
Immediate-release albuterol is rapidly absorbed after oral administration, obtaining Cmax (14 to 18 ng/mL) within 2 to 3 hours. Onset of pulmonary improvement can usually be seen within 30 minutes. Clinically significant improvement (defined as maintaining at least a 15% increase in FEV1 and a 20% increase in mid-expiratory flow rate over baseline) was recorded for up to 6 hours in a controlled clinical trial of 55 children. Elimination half-life is 5 hours.
 
Extended-release formulations
The bioavailability of extended-release (ER) tablets is 100% relative to the immediate-release (IR) tablets at steady state. Albuterol ER has a lower mean Cmax (14 ng/mL) and longer Tmax (6 hours) when compared to IR formulations. Fluctuations in plasma concentrations are similar for albuterol extended-release tablets administered at 12-hour intervals and immediate-release tablets administered at 6-hour intervals. AUC for both formulations is similar (130 ng x hr/mL). Elimination half-life of the ER formulation is approximately 9 hours. Food decreases the rate of absorption without altering the extent of bioavailability. Single dose studies have indicated administration with food causes a more gradual increase in the fraction of the dose absorbed compared to fasting conditions.
 
Inhalation Route
During studies, the majority of the nebulized albuterol dose administered has been recovered from the nebulizer apparatus and/or expired air; less than 20% of albuterol administered is systemically absorbed. At recommended doses, the bioavailability of inhaled albuterol is low. Onset of pulmonary improvement occurs within 2 to 20 minutes. After a 3 mg nebulized dose, peak concentrations of 2.1 ng/mL (range: 1.4 to 3.2 ng/mL) are reached in approximately 30 minutes and peak pulmonary improvement is seen at 1 to 2 hours. Duration of action is 2 to 6 hours. Half-life is approximately 4.6 to 6 hours. Administration via nebulization does not appear to significantly alter the pharmacokinetics of albuterol. The systemic exposure in children 6 to 11 years of age is similar to that of adults after 180 mcg single dose oral inhalation. A small study in 11 healthy children (aged 4 to 11 years) who received a single dose of albuterol inhalation aerosol 180 mcg via metered-dose inhaler, demonstrated a least square mean (SE) Cmax and AUC of 1100 (+/-1.18) pg/mL and 5120 (+/-1.15) pg x hr/mL, respectively. The least square mean (SE) terminal plasma half-life was 166 (+/-7.8) minutes. In a cumulative dose study, the AUC of the dry powder inhalation was similar to the aerosol formulation (metered dose inhaler); however, the Cmax was about one-third higher in the dry powder inhalation group.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Administer with meals to minimize gastric irritation.


Oral Solid Formulations

Immediate release tablets:
Administer orally on a regular dosage schedule as directed by prescriber.
 
Extended-release tablets:
Swallow whole, do not chew or crush.


Oral Liquid Formulations


Administer using a calibrated oral measuring device to ensure accurate dosing.


Inhalation Administration

Aerosol inhalation (e.g., ProAir HFA, Ventolin HFA)
Instruct patient on proper inhalation technique; see the specific product's "Instructions for Use" from the manufacturer.
Make sure the canister is firmly seated in the plastic mouthpiece adapter before each use.
Shake the inhaler well immediately before each use. Prime the inhaler before the first use by spraying 4 times into the air, away from the eyes and face. When the inhaler has not been used for a prolonged period or it has been dropped, prime by spraying 2 to 4 times into the air away from the face, according to the specific inhaler type.
For patients of any age unable to coordinate inhalation and actuation, a spacer or valved holding chamber (VHC) should be used.
The choice of using a mouthpiece versus a face mask with a spacer/VHC device must be made based on the skills and understanding of each individual patient. However, in general, children younger than 3 years require administration with a tight-fitting face mask and spacer/VHC device to achieve optimal delivery. If a face mask is used, allow 5 to 6 inhalations per actuation.
General administration instructions: Shake the inhaler well immediately before each use. Take the cap off the mouthpiece. Hold the inhaler as directed for the inhaler type. The patient will breathe out through the mouth and push as much air from the lungs as the patient can. Put the mouthpiece in the mouth and have patient close their lips around it. Push the top of the canister all the way down while the patient breathes in deeply and slowly through the mouth. Right after the spray comes out, release the canister. After the patient has breathed in all the way, take the inhaler out of the mouth. The patient should hold breath as long as they can, up to 10 seconds, then breathe normally. If prescribed more sprays, wait 1 minute and shake the inhaler again immediately before use. Repeat inhaler steps. Put the cap back on the mouthpiece after use.
Following administration, instruct patient to rinse the mouth with water to minimize dry mouth.
To avoid the spread of infection, do not use the inhaler for more than one person.
Clean the plastic mouthpiece of the inhaler at least once a week; some manufacturers advocate daily cleaning. After removing the medication canister, wash the mouthpiece in warm running water. Do not allow the medication canister to get wet. Shake excess water from the mouthpiece and verify that all medication build-up has been rinsed away. Allow the mouthpiece to air-dry before next use (e.g., over-night).
Discard medication and inhaler after expired or once the labeled number of inhalations have been used, whichever comes first; some products may have an inhalation counter. Ventolin HFA expires 12 months after medication removal from the foil pouch. Other products should be discarded when the labeled number of actuations has been used or by the expiration date printed on original packaging; whichever comes first.
Valved holding chamber (VHC) with aerosol inhalation:
Delivery of a pressurized metered-dose inhaler (MDI) with a spacer with or without a mouthpiece may be preferred in adults and children with asthma exacerbation. Nebulizers can transmit respiratory viral particles.
For infants and children up to 3 years of age, a pressurized MDI plus spacer with face mask is recommended; a nebulizer with a face mask is an alternative.
For children 4 to 5 years old, a pressurized MDI plus spacer is recommended; a pressurized MDI plus spacer with face mask or a nebulizer with a face mask is an alternative.
In children 2 years and older with acute asthma, the use of an MDI plus valved holding chamber (VHC) is as effective as nebulized therapy when appropriate administration technique is used. The method of delivery does not result in a significant difference in hospital admission rates in children seen in the emergency department or equivalent community setting. Additionally, the length of stay in the emergency department is shorter when a VHC was used.
 
Powder for Inhalation (e.g., ProAir RespiClick, ProAir Digihaler)
Instruct patient on proper inhalation technique; see the specific product's "Instructions for Use" from the manufacturer.
Before using for the first time, check the dose counter window to ensure that the inhaler is full and the number "200" is in the window. The dose counter will count down each time the mouthpiece cap is opened and closed. The dose counter only displays even numbers (example: 200, 198, 196, etc.) in the window.
Hold the inhaler upright while opening the cap fully. When the cap is opened, a dose of albuterol will be activated for delivery of the medicine. Make sure a "click" sound is heard; if not, the inhaler may not be activated to give a dose of medicine.
The cap should not be opened unless the patient is ready to take a dose; opening and closing the cap without inhaling a dose will waste the medicine and may damage the inhaler.
The patient should breathe out through the mouth and push as much air from the lungs as they can. Be careful that the patient does not breathe out into the inhaler mouthpiece. Put the mouthpiece in the mouth and have the patient close their lips around it. The patient should breathe in deeply through the mouth until their lungs feel completely full of air. Ensure that the vent above the mouthpiece is not blocked by the patient's lips or fingers. The patient should hold their breath for about 10 seconds or as long as they comfortably can.
Remove the inhaler from the mouth.
Check the dose counter on the back of the inhaler to make sure the dose was received.
Close the cap over the mouthpiece after each use of the inhaler; make sure the cap closes firmly into place.
To inhale another dose, close the cap and then repeat inhaler steps.
The inhaler contains a powder and must be kept clean and dry at all times. Do not wash or put any part of the inhaler in water. If the mouthpiece needs cleaning, gently wipe it with a dry cloth or tissue.
When there are "20" doses left, the dose counter will change to red; refill the prescription or contact the doctor for another prescription.
ProAir Digihaler contains a built-in electronic module which detects, records, and stores data on inhaler events, including peak inspiratory flow rate. A mobile app is required for data transmission but is not required for the administration of albuterol to the patient.
Throw away the inhaler 13 months after removing it from the foil pouch for the first time, when the dose counter displays "0", or after the expiration date on the package, whichever comes first.
 
Inhalation solution for nebulization
For a 2.5 mg dose of albuterol, dilute 0.5 mL of a 0.5% solution for nebulization to a final volume of 3 mL with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Solution or use 3 mL of the commercially available 0.083% solution for nebulization. Deliver solution by nebulization over 5 to 15 minutes.
The choice of using a mouthpiece versus a face mask must be made based on the skills and understanding of each individual patient.
Using the 'blow-by' technique (i.e., holding the face mask or open tube near the patient's nose and mouth) is not recommended.
Some nebulizer solutions state a grace period of 1 week is allowed after removal from the foil pouch. Other products state that the vials should be stored in the foil pouch until time of use. Refer to the specific product for this information.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

32 mg/day PO for syrup and tablets; FDA-approved labeling for inhaler recommends not exceeding 12 actuations/day (1,080 mcg/day); FDA-approved labeling for nebulizer solution for oral inhalation recommends not exceeding 4 doses/day (10 mg/day). Higher maximum dosages for inhalation products have been recommended in guidelines for asthma exacerbation.

Geriatric

32 mg/day PO for syrup and tablets; FDA-approved labeling for inhaler recommends not exceeding 12 actuations/day (1,080 mcg/day); FDA-approved labeling for nebulizer solution for oral inhalation recommends not exceeding 4 doses/day (10 mg/day). Higher maximum dosages for inhalation products have been recommended in guidelines for asthma exacerbation.

Adolescents

15 to 17 years: 32 mg/day PO for syrup and tablets; FDA-approved labeling for inhaler recommends not exceeding 12 actuations/day (1,080 mcg/day); FDA-approved labeling for nebulizer solution for oral inhalation recommends not exceeding 4 doses/day (10 mg/day). Higher maximum dosages for inhalation products have been recommended in guidelines for asthma exacerbation.
13 to 14 years: 24 mg/day PO for syrup; 32 mg/day PO for tablets; FDA-approved labeling for inhaler recommends not exceeding 12 actuations/day (1,080 mcg/day); FDA-approved labeling for nebulizer solution for oral inhalation recommends not exceeding 4 doses/day (10 mg/day). Higher maximum dosages for inhalation products have been recommended in guidelines for asthma exacerbation.

Children

6 to 12 years: 24 mg/day PO for syrup and tablets; FDA-approved labeling for inhaler recommends not exceeding 12 actuations/day (1,080 mcg/day); FDA-approved labeling for nebulizer solution for oral inhalation recommends not exceeding 4 doses/day (10 mg/day). Higher maximum dosages for inhalation products have been recommended in guidelines for asthma exacerbation.
4 to 5 years: 0.6 mg/kg/day PO (Max: 12 mg/day PO) for albuterol syrup; FDA-approved labeling for inhaler recommends not exceeding 12 actuations/day (1,080 mcg/day); FDA-approved labeling for nebulizer solution for oral inhalation recommends not exceeding 4 doses/day (10 mg/day). Higher maximum dosages for inhalation products have been recommended in guidelines for asthma exacerbation.
2 to 3 years: 0.6 mg/kg/day PO (Max: 12 mg/day PO) for albuterol syrup; FDA-approved labeling for nebulizer solution for oral inhalation recommends not exceeding 4 doses/day (10 mg/day). Higher maximum dosages for inhalation products have been recommended in guidelines for asthma exacerbation.
1 year: Safety and efficacy have not been established; nebulizer inhalation maximum dependent on patient response and formulation used.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established; nebulizer inhalation maximum dependent on patient response and formulation used.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established; nebulizer inhalation maximum dependent on patient response and formulation used.

Dosage Forms

AIRSUPRA 90mcg-80mcg/actuation Inhalation Aerosol

Albuterol 90mcg/1actuation Pressurized inhalation, suspension with Inhaler mouthpiece

Albuterol 90mcg/1actuation Pressurized inhalation, suspension with Inhaler mouthpiece with Dose Counter

Albuterol Sulfate 0.083% Nebulizer solution

Albuterol Sulfate 0.5% Nebulizer solution

Albuterol Sulfate 0.5% Nebulizer solution with Nebulizer Solution Dropper, Calibrated

Albuterol Sulfate 0.63mg/3mL Nebulizer solution

Albuterol Sulfate 1.25mg/3mL Nebulizer solution

Albuterol Sulfate 2.5mg/0.5mL Nebulizer solution

Albuterol Sulfate 2mg Oral tablet

Albuterol Sulfate 2mg/5mL Oral syrup

Albuterol Sulfate 4mg Oral tablet

Albuterol Sulfate 5mg/1mL Nebulizer solution

Albuterol Sulfate Bulk powder

Proair HFA 90mcg/actuation Inhalation Aerosol

Proair HFA 90mcg/actuation Inhalation Aerosol

ProAir RespiClick 90mcg/actuation Powder for Inhalation

Proventil HFA 90mcg/actuation Inhalation Aerosol

Ventolin HFA 90mcg/actuation Inhalation Aerosol

Ventolin HFA 90mcg/actuation Inhalation Aerosol

Ventolin HFA 90mcg/actuation Inhalation Aerosol

Ventolin HFA 90mcg/actuation Inhalation Aerosol

Ventolin HFA 90mcg/actuation Inhalation Aerosol

Ventolin HFA 90mcg/actuation Inhalation Aerosol

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available. Caution may be warranted during the administration of high doses in patients with renal impairment, as renal clearance is reduced.

© 2026 Elsevier