=== Amoxicillin/Clarithromycin/Omeprazole — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3763)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole is a 3-drug combination of a penicillin antibacterial, a macrolide antibacterial, and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or history of within the past 1...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Amoxicillin 2000 mg/day PO; Clarithromycin 1 g/day PO; Omeprazole 40 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dysgeusia, pancreatitis, stool discoloration, tongue discoloration, tooth discoloration, weight gain, abnormal dreams, agitation, anxiety, aseptic meningitis, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, mania, nightmares, paresthesias, psychosis, seizures, tremor, vertigo, arthralgia, asthenia, back pain, muscle cramps, myalgia, myasthenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to any penicillin, other macrolide antibiotics, or other benzimidazoles...

AMOXICILLIN/CLARITHROMYCIN/OMEPRAZOLE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Omeclamox

Indication Specific Dosing

For Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) eradication

Oral dosage
Adults


1,000 mg amoxicillin PO, 500 mg clarithromycin PO, and 20 mg omeprazole PO twice daily for 10 days. Guidelines recommend 14 days of treatment. FDA-labeling suggests an additional 18 days of omeprazole in patients with ulcers.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to any penicillin, other macrolide antibiotics, or other benzimidazoles [e.g., other proton pump inhibitors (PPIs)]. Hypersensitivity reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of penicillin, cephalosporin, or carbapenem hypersensitivity. Before starting therapy with amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole, carefully inquire about previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, other beta-lactams, or macrolide antibiotics.

General Information

In adults, symptomatic response to therapy with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Consider additional follow-up and diagnostic testing in adults who have a suboptimal response or an early symptomatic relapse after completing treatment with a PPI. In older adults, also consider an endoscopy.

allergic disorder, atopy


Hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens (atopy) or allergic disorder (e.g., asthma, hay fever, or urticaria). Before starting therapy with amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole, carefully inquire about previous hypersensitivity reactions to allergens.


mononucleosis


Avoid amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole in individuals with mononucleosis. A high percentage of individuals with mononucleosis who receive amoxicillin develop an erythematosus skin rash.


bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias


Avoid use of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Additional risk factors may include a history of ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes. An increase in risk of all-cause mortality up to 10 years after clarithromycin exposure (hazard ratio 1.1; 95% CI 1 to 1.21) was also observed in a clinical trial evaluating outcomes in subjects with coronary artery disease. The cause of the increased mortality has not been established and other studies evaluating this risk have shown variable results. Consider balancing this potential risk with treatment benefits when using amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole in individuals with suspected or known coronary artery disease.


hepatic failure


Avoid amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole use in individuals with hepatic impairment or hepatic failure.


renal failure, renal impairment


In the presence of severe renal impairment or renal failure with or without coexisting hepatic impairment, prolonged dosing intervals for the clarithromycin component of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole may be appropriate.


myasthenia gravis


Monitor individuals with myasthenia gravis for exacerbation of symptoms during amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole therapy. Exacerbation of symptoms of myasthenia gravis has been reported with clarithromycin.


cutaneous lupus erythematosus, systemic lupus erythematosus


Exacerbation of cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), has been reported in individuals receiving proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including omeprazole. If signs or symptoms consistent with CLE or SLE develop, discontinue amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole and evaluate as appropriate. Avoid use of PPIs or longer than medically indicated.


Asian patients


Avoid amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole in Asian patients unless the benefits outweigh the risks. Asians exhibit a 4-fold increase in AUC of omeprazole compared to Whites.


pregnancy


Amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole is not recommended for use during pregnancy unless no alternative therapy is appropriate. Except in very unusual cases, H. pylori eradication treatment can generally be deferred until after pregnancy ends. If pregnancy occurs while taking clarithromycin, advise the patient of the potential risk to the fetus. Clarithromycin demonstrated adverse effects on pregnancy outcome and/or embryo-fetal development in pregnant animals administered oral clarithromycin. Observational studies in pregnant individuals also demonstrated adverse effects on pregnancy outcomes, including an increased risk of miscarriage and in some studies an increased incidence of fetal malformations. In a prospective, multicenter trial (n = 511) of pregnant individuals exposed to macrolides (including clarithromycin) during the first trimester, the rates for major congenital defects were 1.8% for clarithromycin vs. 2.4% in the comparator group (p = 0.8, OR 0.76, 95% CI 0.25 to 2.27). Other studies of pregnant individuals exposed to a macrolide have not reported an association with the use of clarithromycin and major birth defects. Reproduction studies with amoxicillin have been performed in mice and rats at doses up to 10 times the human dose, with no evidence of fetal harm. Available data from epidemiologic studies evaluating omeprazole use during pregnancy do not demonstrate an increased risk of major congenital malformations or other adverse outcomes. Fetal malformations were not observed in animal reproduction studies with esomeprazole (an enantiomer of omeprazole). In rats, offspring exhibited bone morphology changes when maternal dosing occurred throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses equal to or more than 34 times the human dose. When administration was limited to gestation, no effects on bone growth plates were observed at any age.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, reproductive risk


Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with clarithromycin. Based on animal studies, clarithromycin may impair male fertility. Administration of clarithromycin resulted in testicular atrophy in rats, dogs, and monkeys.


breast-feeding


Use amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole with caution during breast-feeding. Omeprazole and amoxicillin are considered compatible with breast-feeding, but clarithromycin should be used with caution. Limited data suggest that omeprazole is present in human milk in small amounts, with a relative infant dose of 1.1%. The amount of omeprazole present in human milk is unlikely to be harmful to the breast-fed child.  Amoxicillin is excreted in human milk and, like other antibiotics, may occasionally cause diarrhea or thrush in the breastfed child. Clarithromycin and its active metabolite are excreted in human milk. The relative infant dose is 1.62% to 2.1%. In addition to the potential for gastrointestinal effects, there have been unconfirmed epidemiologic evidence that the risk of infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis may be increased in neonates exposed to macrolides through breast milk during the first 2 weeks of life. There is no direct evidence that this relationship exists with clarithromycin.
 
 


Pregnancy And Lactation


Amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole is not recommended for use during pregnancy unless no alternative therapy is appropriate. Except in very unusual cases, H. pylori eradication treatment can generally be deferred until after pregnancy ends. If pregnancy occurs while taking clarithromycin, advise the patient of the potential risk to the fetus. Clarithromycin demonstrated adverse effects on pregnancy outcome and/or embryo-fetal development in pregnant animals administered oral clarithromycin. Observational studies in pregnant individuals also demonstrated adverse effects on pregnancy outcomes, including an increased risk of miscarriage and in some studies an increased incidence of fetal malformations. In a prospective, multicenter trial (n = 511) of pregnant individuals exposed to macrolides (including clarithromycin) during the first trimester, the rates for major congenital defects were 1.8% for clarithromycin vs. 2.4% in the comparator group (p = 0.8, OR 0.76, 95% CI 0.25 to 2.27). Other studies of pregnant individuals exposed to a macrolide have not reported an association with the use of clarithromycin and major birth defects. Reproduction studies with amoxicillin have been performed in mice and rats at doses up to 10 times the human dose, with no evidence of fetal harm. Available data from epidemiologic studies evaluating omeprazole use during pregnancy do not demonstrate an increased risk of major congenital malformations or other adverse outcomes. Fetal malformations were not observed in animal reproduction studies with esomeprazole (an enantiomer of omeprazole). In rats, offspring exhibited bone morphology changes when maternal dosing occurred throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses equal to or more than 34 times the human dose. When administration was limited to gestation, no effects on bone growth plates were observed at any age.


Interactions

Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Administer clarithromycin and zidovudine at least 2 hours apart. Simultaneous oral administration of clarithromycin immediate-release tablets and zidovudine may result in decreased steady-state zidovudine concentrations. The impact of coadministration of clarithromycin extended-release tablets or granules and zidovudine has not been evaluated.
Abemaciclib: (Major) If coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of clarithromycin. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with clarithromycin increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and clarithromycin; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term clarithromycin use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after clarithromycin has been discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib capsules and omeprazole; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred in a drug interaction study. Consider using the acalabrutinib tablet formlation or use an antacid or H2-blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed. Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and antacids by at least 2 hours; give acalabrutinib capsules 2 hours before a H2-blocker. Acalabrutinib capsuel solubility decreases with increasing pH values. The AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 43% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with omeprazole 40 mg/day for 5 days.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with clarithromycin may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to dihydrocodeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with clarithromycin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like clarithromycin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If clarithromycin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. If clarithromycin is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor like clarithromycin can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If clarithromycin is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with adagrasib due to the potential for increased exposure to adagrasib and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is necessary, wait for adagrasib levels to reach steady state (approximately 8 days after initiation) and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use before adagrasib steady state is achieved may increase adagrasib exposure. Adagrasib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. Concomitant use of a single 200 mg dose of adagrasib with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased adagrasib exposure by approximately 4-fold, however, no clinically significant differences in pharmacokinetics are predicted at steady state. (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with adagrasib. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until clarithromycin has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of clarithromycin) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of clarithromycin and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of clarithromycin. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide and clarithromycin due to the potential for increased budesonide exposure. Use caution with inhaled forms of budesonide as systemic exposure to the corticosteroid may also increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In the presence of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, the systemic exposure to oral budesonide was increased by 8-fold. (Minor) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH greater than 5.5. Concomitant use of budesonide oral capsules and drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
Alendronate: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Use together with caution. Alfentanil is metabolized by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Clarithromycin is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 may decrease systemic clearance of alfentanil leading to increased or prolonged effects. Postmarketing reports of interactions with concomitant use have been noted.
Alfuzosin: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with clarithromycin due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Additive effects on the QT interval may also occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate that may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Allopurinol: (Minor) Use of amoxicillin with allopurinol can increase the incidence of drug-related skin rash.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and clarithromycin should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and oral hypoglycemic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. With certain hypoglycemic drugs such as the thiazolidinediones, inhibition of CYP3A enzyme by clarithromycin may be involved; however, CYP3A is not a major metabolism route for pioglitazone and rosiglitazone. Careful monitoring of glucose is recommended.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with clarithromycin may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
ALPRAZolam: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of clarithromycin and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with clarithromycin, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. There have been post-marketing reports of central nervous system (CNS) effects (e.g., somnolence and confusion) with the concomitant use of clarithromycin. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the CYP450 system, such as alprazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of amiodarone and clarithromycin due to increased amiodarone exposure and an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when amisulpride is administered with clarithromycin. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
amLODIPine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8). (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Clarithromycin inhibits the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8). (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Ampicillin: (Major) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid. For enteral ampicillin, whose bioavailability is influenced by gastric pH, the concomitant administration of PPIs can exert a significant effect on ampicillin absorption.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Major) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid. For enteral ampicillin, whose bioavailability is influenced by gastric pH, the concomitant administration of PPIs can exert a significant effect on ampicillin absorption.
Anagrelide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include clarithromycin.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apalutamide with omeprazole as omeprazole plasma concentrations may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of both CYP3A and CYP2C19. Coadministration with apalutamide has been observed to decrease the overall exposure of omeprazole by 85%. (Major) Consider alternatives to clarithromycin if treatment with apalutamide is necessary. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes will decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Exposure to apalutamide may also be increased. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with rifabutin. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively, with this inhibitor. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Apixaban: (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic data suggest that no dose adjustment is necessary if apixaban is coadministered with clarithromycin. However, because clarithromycin is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, there is a potential for increased apixaban exposure and increased risk of bleeding with concurrent use of clarithromycin. Monitor patients closely if coadministration is necessary. When combined with other P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the manufacturer recommends reducing the apixaban dose by 50% and avoiding concomitant administration if patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily.
Apomorphine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with apomorphine when possible. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clarithromycin with aprepitant due to substantially increased exposure of aprepitant; increased clarithromycin exposure may also occur. If coadministration cannot be avoided, use caution and monitor for an increase in clarithromycin- and aprepitant-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares the same drug interactions. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and aprepitant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of a single oral dose of aprepitant (125 mg) on day 5 of a 10-day ketoconazole regimen (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) increased the aprepitant AUC approximately 5-fold, and increased the mean terminal half-life by approximately 3-fold. Clarithromycin is also a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer; substitution of fosaprepitant 115 mg IV on day 1 of the 3-day regimen may lessen the inhibitory effects of CYP3A4. The AUC of a single dose of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam, increased by 2.3-fold and 3.3-fold on days 1 and 5, respectively, when coadministered with a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam increased by 25% on day 4, and decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively, when given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15. As a single 40-mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.2-fold; the midazolam AUC increased by 1.5-fold after a single 125-mg dose of oral aprepitant. After single doses of IV fosaprepitant, the midazolam AUC increased by 1.8-fold (150 mg) and 1.6-fold (100 mg); less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important. (Minor) Use caution if omeprazole and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in omeprazole-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of omeprazole. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict. Observation of the patient for increased effects from armodafinil may be needed. (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In theory, dosage reductions may be required for drugs that are largely eliminated via CYP2C19 metabolism such as omeprazole during coadministration with armodafinil. A 40% increase in exposure of omeprazole was observed during coadministration with armodafinil. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concurrent use of arsenic trioxide and clarithromycin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin is associated with QT prolongation and TdP. QT prolongation, TdP, and complete atrioventricular block have also been reported with the administration of arsenic trioxide.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concurrent use of artemether; lumefantrine and clarithromycin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if clarithromycin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of clarithromycin has resulted in prolongation of the QT interval and TdP. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP. In addition, clarithromycin is an inhibitor and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with clarithromycin is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with clarithromycin increased asciminib exposure by 36%.
Asenapine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Aspirin, ASA: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with clarithromycin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. If clarithromycin is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor like clarithromycin can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If clarithromycin is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with atazanavir in treatment-experienced patients is contraindicated. PPIs can be used with atazanavir in treatment-naive patients under specific administration restrictions. In treatment-naive patients >= 40 kg, the PPI dose should not exceed the equivalent of omeprazole 20 mg/day, and the PPI must be administered 12 hours before atazanavir and ritonavir; use the dosage regimen of atazanavir 300 mg boosted with ritonavir 100 mg given once daily with food. While data are insufficient to recommend atazanavir dosing in children < 40 kg receiving concomitant PPIs, the same recommendations regarding timing and maximum doses of concomitant PPIs should be followed. Closely monitor patients for antiretroviral therapeutic failure and resistance development during treatment with a PPI. A randomized, open-label, multiple-dose drug interaction study of atazanavir (300 mg) with ritonavir (100 mg) coadministered with omeprazole 40 mg found a reduction in atazanavir AUC and Cmin of 76% and 78%, respectively. Additionally, after multiple doses of omeprazole (40 mg/day) and atazanavir (400 mg/day, 2 hours after omeprazole) without ritonavir, the AUC of atazanavir was decreased by 94%, Cmax by 96%, and Cmin by 95%. (Major) Coadministration with atazanavir increases clarithromycin serum concentrations. Use caution if these drugs are coadministered, as increased clarithromycin concentrations may cause QT prolongation; a 50% dosage reduction of clarithromycin is recommended. In addition, atazanavir significantly reduces the concentration of 14-OH clarithromycin, the active metabolite of clarithromycin; consider alternative agents for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC).
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with atazanavir in treatment-experienced patients is contraindicated. PPIs can be used with atazanavir in treatment-naive patients under specific administration restrictions. In treatment-naive patients >= 40 kg, the PPI dose should not exceed the equivalent of omeprazole 20 mg/day, and the PPI must be administered 12 hours before atazanavir and ritonavir; use the dosage regimen of atazanavir 300 mg boosted with ritonavir 100 mg given once daily with food. While data are insufficient to recommend atazanavir dosing in children < 40 kg receiving concomitant PPIs, the same recommendations regarding timing and maximum doses of concomitant PPIs should be followed. Closely monitor patients for antiretroviral therapeutic failure and resistance development during treatment with a PPI. A randomized, open-label, multiple-dose drug interaction study of atazanavir (300 mg) with ritonavir (100 mg) coadministered with omeprazole 40 mg found a reduction in atazanavir AUC and Cmin of 76% and 78%, respectively. Additionally, after multiple doses of omeprazole (40 mg/day) and atazanavir (400 mg/day, 2 hours after omeprazole) without ritonavir, the AUC of atazanavir was decreased by 94%, Cmax by 96%, and Cmin by 95%. (Major) Avoid concurrent use of clarithromycin with regimens containing cobicistat and atazanavir or darunavir; use of an alternative antibiotic is recommended. Taking these drugs together may result in elevated concentrations of clarithromycin, cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. Both clarithromycin and cobicistat are inhibitors of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. (Major) Coadministration with atazanavir increases clarithromycin serum concentrations. Use caution if these drugs are coadministered, as increased clarithromycin concentrations may cause QT prolongation; a 50% dosage reduction of clarithromycin is recommended. In addition, atazanavir significantly reduces the concentration of 14-OH clarithromycin, the active metabolite of clarithromycin; consider alternative agents for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC). (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Atogepant: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Atorvastatin: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Clarithromycin inhibits the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin.
Atrasentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Avacopan: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Avanafil: (Major) Concomitant use of avanafil and clarithromycin is not recommended due to the risk for increased avanafil serum concentrations and serious adverse reactions. Avanafil is a substrate of and primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of avanafil with other strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 has resulted in significantly increased exposure to avanafil; clarithromycin would be expected to have similar effects. (Minor) Avanafil is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. A single avanafil (200 mg) dose increased the AUC and Cmax of a single omeprazole (40 mg) dose, a CYP2C19 substrate, given once daily for 8 days by 5.9% and 8.6%, respectively.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
Axitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after clarithromycin is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and clarithromycin is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with strong inhibitors increased plasma fluticasone exposure resulting in 45% to 86% decreases in serum cortisol AUC. A strong inhibitor increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Major) Urinary concentrations of clarithromycin could interfere with the therapeutic effectiveness of BCG. Postpone instillation of BCG if the patient is receiving antibiotics.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of bedaquiline and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase bedaquiline exposure and the risk for other adverse effects, including hepatotoxicity. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Bedaquiline is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with clarithromycin increased bedaquiline overall exposure by 14%.
Belumosudil: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with other PPIs has decreased belumosudil exposure by 47% to 80% in healthy subjects.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Monitor for anemia and hypoxia if concomitant use of omeprazole with belzutifan is necessary due to increased plasma exposure of belzutifan which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of belzutifan as recommended if anemia or hypoxia occur. Belzutifan is a CYP2C19 substrate and omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with clarithromycin may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Discontinuation of clarithromycin in a patient taking benzhydrocodone may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP3A4. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse effects if coadministration is necessary. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and betamethasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects.
Bexarotene: (Major) Coadministration of bexarotene and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking CYP3A4 inducers.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bisacodyl: (Minor) The concomitant use of bisacodyl oral tablets with drugs that raise gastric pH like proton pump inhibitors can cause the enteric coating of the bisacodyl tablets to dissolve prematurely, leading to possible gastric irritation or dyspepsia. When taking bisacodyl tablets, it is advisable to avoid PPIs within 1 hour before or after the bisacodyl dosage.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Bortezomib: (Minor) Clarithromycin is a significant inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes and may increase the serum concentration of CYP3A4 substrates, such as bortezomib, due to the potential for reduced metabolism and drug accumulation.
Bosentan: (Major) Coadministration of bosentan and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration may also increase the plasma concentrations of bosentan. The potential for increased bosentan effects should be monitored.
Bosutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bosutinib and clarithromycin; bosutinib plasma exposure may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of bosutinib adverse events (e.g., myelosuppression, GI toxicity). Bosutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a cross-over trial in 24 healthy volunteers, the Cmax and AUC values of bosutinib were increased 5.2-fold and 8.6-fold, respectively, when a single oral dose of bosutinib 100 mg PO was administered after 5 days of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Major) Bosutinib displays pH-dependent aqueous solubility; therefore, concomitant use of bosutinib and proton-pump inhibitors, such as omeprazole, may result in decreased plasma exposure of bosutinib. Consider using a short-acting antacid or H2 blocker if acid suppression therapy is needed; separate the administration of bosutinib and antacids or H2-blockers by more than 2 hours.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Because brexpiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the brexpiprazole dose be reduced to one-half of the usual dose in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for brexpiprazole-related adverse reactions. Because brexpiprazole is also metabolized by CYP2D6, patients classified as CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs) who are receiving a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or patients receiving a combination of a moderate to strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and moderate to strong CYP2D6 inhibitor should have their brexpiprazole dose reduced to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose. If the co-administered CYP inhibitor is discontinued, adjust the brexpiprazole dose to its original level. Similar precautions apply to combination products containing clarithromycin such as amoxicillin; clarithromycin; lansoprazole or amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with clarithromycin if possible due to increased plasma exposure of brigatinib; an increase in brigatinib-related adverse reactions may occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of brigatinib by approximately 50% without breaking tablets (i.e., from 180 mg to 90 mg; from 90 mg to 60 mg); after discontinuation of clarithromycin, resume the brigatinib dose that was tolerated prior to initiation of clarithromycin. Brigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC and Cmax of brigatinib by 101% and 21%, respectively.
Brincidofovir: (Moderate) Postpone the administration of clarithromycin for at least three hours after brincidofovir administration and increase monitoring for brincidofovir-related adverse reactions (i.e., elevated hepatic enzymes and bilirubin, diarrhea, other gastrointestinal adverse events) if concomitant use of brincidofovir and clarithromycin is necessary. Brincidofovir is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, the mean AUC and Cmax of brincidofovir increased by 374% and 269%, respectively, when administered with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Bromocriptine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bromocriptine and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased bromocriptine exposure which may increase the risk for bromocriptine-related adverse reactions. Bromocriptine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide and clarithromycin due to the potential for increased budesonide exposure. Use caution with inhaled forms of budesonide as systemic exposure to the corticosteroid may also increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In the presence of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, the systemic exposure to oral budesonide was increased by 8-fold. (Minor) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH greater than 5.5. Concomitant use of budesonide oral capsules and drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide and clarithromycin due to the potential for increased budesonide exposure. Use caution with inhaled forms of budesonide as systemic exposure to the corticosteroid may also increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In the presence of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, the systemic exposure to oral budesonide was increased by 8-fold. (Minor) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH greater than 5.5. Concomitant use of budesonide oral capsules and drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide and clarithromycin due to the potential for increased budesonide exposure. Use caution with inhaled forms of budesonide as systemic exposure to the corticosteroid may also increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In the presence of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, the systemic exposure to oral budesonide was increased by 8-fold. (Minor) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH greater than 5.5. Concomitant use of budesonide oral capsules and drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and loop diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation, cautious use and close monitoring are advisable if concurrent use of clarithromycin and buprenorphine is necessary. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin also has a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. In addition, since the metabolism of buprenorphine is mediated by CYP3A4, co-administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor such as clarithromycin may decrease the clearance of buprenorphine resulting in prolonged or increased opioid effects. If co-administration is necessary, monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved. The effect of CYP3A4 inhibitors on buprenorphine implants has not been studied, and the effect may be dependent on the route of administration.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation, cautious use and close monitoring are advisable if concurrent use of clarithromycin and buprenorphine is necessary. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin also has a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. In addition, since the metabolism of buprenorphine is mediated by CYP3A4, co-administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor such as clarithromycin may decrease the clearance of buprenorphine resulting in prolonged or increased opioid effects. If co-administration is necessary, monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved. The effect of CYP3A4 inhibitors on buprenorphine implants has not been studied, and the effect may be dependent on the route of administration.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with buspirone may result in increases in buspirone AUC; the mechanism is probably reduced buspirone metabolism via CYP3A4. A low dose of buspirone is recommended if administered with significant CYP3A4 inhibitors. Subsequent dose adjustments should be based on clinical assessment.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with clarithromycin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with clarithromycin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Cabazitaxel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cabazitaxel with clarithromycin if possible due to increased cabazitaxel exposure. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of cabazitaxel by 25%. Cabazitaxel is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased cabazitaxel exposure by 25%.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of proton pump inhibitors and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Proton pump inhibitors inhibit secretion of gastric acid by proton pumps thereby increasing the gastric pH; for optimal absorption, rilpivirine requires an acidic environment. Coadministration of a proton pump inhibitor and rilpivirine may result in decreased rilpivirine absorption/serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine. (Major) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering clarithromycin with rilpivirine due to an increased potential for rilpivirine-related adverse events. When possible, alternative antibiotics should be considered. Predictions about the interaction can be made based on metabolic pathways. Clarithromycin is an inhibitor of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in increased rilpivirine plasma concentrations. Also, supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as clarithromycin.
Cabozantinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cabozantinib and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased cabozantinib exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of cabozantinib. For patients taking cabozantinib tablets, reduce the dose of cabozantinib by 20 mg; for patients taking cabozantinib capsules, reduce the dose of cabozantinib by 40 mg. Resume the cabozantinib dose that was used prior to initiating treatment with clarithromycin 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of clarithromycin. Cabozantinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased cabozantinib exposure by 38%.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Antibiotics that undergo tubular secretion such as penicillins may compete with phenylacetlyglutamine and hippuric acid for active tubular secretion. The overall usefulness of sodium benzoate; sodium phenylacetate is due to the excretion of its metabolites. An increase in metabolite concentrations could contribute to failed treatment and worsening of the patient's clinical status. This combination should be used with caution.
Calcifediol: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of calcifediol may be necessary during coadministration with clarithromycin. Additionally, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, intact PTH, and calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with clarithromycin. Clarithromycin, which is a cytochrome P450 inhibitor, may inhibit enzymes involved in vitamin D metabolism (CYP24A1 and CYP27B1) and may alter serum concentrations of calcifediol.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with cannabidiol. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and cannabidiol is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capivasertib with clarithromycin due to increased capivasertib exposure which may increase the risk for capivasertib-related adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the dose of capivasertib to 320 mg PO twice daily for 4 days followed by 3 days off; monitor for adverse reactions. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of capivasertib by up to 1.7-fold.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole and carbamazepine as omeprazole exposure may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Coadministration of carbamazepine and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking CYP3A4 inducers. Additionally, carbamazepine is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4. Drugs known to inhibit CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, may decrease carbamazepine metabolism and increase carbamazepine plasma concentrations. Serum carbamazepine concentrations should be monitored closely during coadministration; reduce carbamazepine doses may be necessary. Clarithromycin also inhibits epoxide hydrolase resulting in increased levels of the active metabolite carbamazepine 10, 11- epoxide, which may be more hepatotoxic than the parent drug. Several case reports have documented that clarithromycin can significantly decrease carbamazepine clearance, producing increases in the serum concentration of carbamazepine. Carbamazepine concentrations increased from 12 mcg/ml to 19.1 mcg/ml in a 17-year-old boy after 2 days of clarithromycin 250 mg PO bid. Patients should be monitored for carbamazepine toxicity if clarithromycin is added. Carbamazepine toxicity may be avoided if clarithromycin therapy is begun first and stabilized prior to beginning carbamazepine therapy, however, carbamazepine dosages may need to be increased if clarithromycin is subsequently discontinued.
Cardiac glycosides: (Major) Clarithromycin has been reported to increase the digoxin AUC by 70% when digoxin is administered orally. No significant changes in digoxin exposure were reported when digoxin was administered intravenously (IV). Originally, this interaction was thought to be due to inhibition of intestinal flora, which leads to decreased intestinal metabolism of digoxin to inactive digoxin reduction products (DRPs). While this may occur, only 5% of a digoxin dose is subject to metabolism by gut flora and this mechanism does not account for the large increases in digoxin levels that occur with the coadministration of clarithromycin. A more important factor is clarithromycin inhibition of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), an energy-dependent drug efflux pump. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate. Inhibition of this protein in the intestinal cell wall leads to increased oral absorption and decreased renal and non-renal clearance of digoxin. Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating clarithromycin. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing the oral digoxin dose by approximately 30 to 50% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. No dosage adjustment is required when digoxin is administered IV.
Cariprazine: (Major) A cariprazine dosage reduction may be required during concomitant use with clarithromycin. Cariprazine dosage modification recommendations vary by indication, previous exposure to cariprazine, and age. When initiating cariprazine in adults receiving clarithromycin, reduce the cariprazine starting dose to 0.5 mg PO once daily; in adults with schizophrenia or bipolar mania, the cariprazine dose may be increased to 0.75 mg PO once daily, if needed, based on clinical response. Avoid initiating cariprazine in pediatric patients receiving clarithromycin. When adding clarithromycin to a stable dose of cariprazine, reduce the cariprazine dosage: from 1.5 mg or 3 mg once daily to 0.5 mg once daily, from 4.5 or 6 mg once daily to 0.75 mg once daily. Concomitant use increases cariprazine exposure and the risk for cariprazine-related adverse effects. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased cariprazine overall exposure by 2-fold.
Carisoprodol: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Cefpodoxime: (Moderate) Cefpodoxime proxetil requires a low gastric pH for dissolution; therefore, concurrent administration with medications that increase gastric pH, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may decrease the bioavailability of cefpodoxime. When cefpodoxime was administered with high doses of antacids and H2-blockers, peak plasma concentrations were reduced by 24% and 42% and the extent of absorption was reduced by 27% and 32%, respectively. The rate of absorption is not affected.
Cefuroxime: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and cefuroxime. Drugs that reduce gastric acidity, such as PPIs, can interfere with the oral absorption of cefuroxime axetil and may result in reduced antibiotic efficacy.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Cenobamate: (Major) Consider alternatives to clarithromycin if treatment with cenobamate is necessary as concurrent use may decrease efficacy of clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A-based interactions of clarithromycin with another CYP3A4 inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with ceritinib due to the additive risk of QT prolongation and increased ceritinib exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, decrease the dose of ceritinib by approximately one-third, rounded to the nearest multiple of 150 mg; monitor for ceritinib-related adverse reactions. Periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, further dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. After clarithromycin is discontinued, resume the dose of ceritinib taken prior to initiating clarithromycin. Ceritinib is a CYP3A substrate associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ceritinib exposure by 2.9-fold.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin, may reduce the metabolism of chlordiazepoxide and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as chlordiazepoxide. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin, may reduce the metabolism of chlordiazepoxide and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as chlordiazepoxide. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin, may reduce the metabolism of chlordiazepoxide and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as chlordiazepoxide. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with clarithromycin due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with clarithromycin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like clarithromycin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If clarithromycin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concurrent use of chlorpromazine and clarithromycin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both clarithromycin and chlorpromazine are specifically associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins, and sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Cilostazol: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with clarithromycin. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. (Major) When significant CYP2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, are administered concomitantly with cilostazol, the cilostazol dosage should be reduced by 50%. Cilostazol is metabolized by the CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to have pharmacokinetic interactions with many medications that are potent inhibitors of CYP2C19. When given concurrently with omeprazole, cilostazol AUC is increased by 26% and the Cmax is increased by 18%; the AUC of the active metabolite 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol is increased by 69% and the Cmax is increased by 29%.
Cinacalcet: (Moderate) Monitor for cinacalcet-related adverse effects during concomitant use of clarithromycin and adjust dosage as appropriate based on response. Concomitant use may increase cinacalcet exposure. Cinacalcet is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased cinacalcet overall exposure by 127%.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of clarithromycin and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Minor) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and omeprazole may decrease the AUC and Cmax of ciprofloxacin, but the clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. Codministration of a single tablet dose of 500 mg ciprofloxacin and once-daily administration of 20 mg omeprazole pretreatment for 4 days resulted in a 16% reduction of mean Cmax and mean AUC of ciprofloxacin. A single 1000 mg oral dose of Cipro XR administered with omeprazole (40 mg once daily for 3 days) to 18 healthy volunteers resulted in a decrease in the ciprofloxacin mean AUC by 20% and Cmax by 23%. However, coadministration of a single 1000 mg oral dose of Proquin XR given 2 hours after the third dose of omeprazole (40 mg once daily for 3 days) to 27 healthy volunteers resulted in no changes in the ciprofloxacin AUC and Cmax. If ciprofloxacin is administered with omeprazole with magnesium, chelation of the ciprofloxacin would be expected; in general, it is recommended that ciprofloxacin be administered 2 hours before or 6 hours after any divalent cations like magnesium to help limit an interaction.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Postmarketing surveillance reports have documented QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes and death, when known and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are coadministered with cisapride. Because of the potential severity of these drug interactions (increased plasma cisapride concentrations and QT prolongation), cisapride use is contraindicated with clarithromycin which inhibits the CYP3A4 isoenzyme.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of citalopram and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Limit the dose of citalopram to 20 mg/day if coadministered with omeprazole. Concurrent use may increase citalopram exposure increasing the risk of QT prolongation. Citalopram is a sensitive CYP2C19 substrate; omeprazole is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C19.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in clindamycin-related adverse reactions with coadministration of clarithromycin as concurrent use may increase clindamycin exposure. Clindamycin is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) A dosage reduction of clobazam may be necessary during co-administration of omeprazole. Metabolism of N-desmethylclobazam, the active metabolite of clobazam, occurs primarily through CYP2C19 and omeprazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. Extrapolation from pharmacogenomic data indicates that concurrent use of clobazam with moderate or potent inhibitors of CYP2C19 may result in up to a 5-fold increase in exposure to N-desmethylclobazam. Adverse effects, such as sedation, lethargy, ataxia, or insomnia may be potentiated.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
clomiPRAMINE: (Minor) Coadministration may result in increased clomipramine exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor and clomipramine is a CYP2C19 substrate.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Use clarithromycin cautiously and carefully monitor patients receiving concurrent clonazepam due to impaired metabolism of clonazepam leading to exaggerated concentrations and adverse effects, such as CNS and/or respiratory depression. Clonazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Clopidogrel: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of clopidogrel and omeprazole as it significantly reduces the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel. If necessary, consider using an alternative proton pump inhibitor, such as rabeprazole, pantoprazole, lansoprazole, or dexlansoprazole. Clopidogrel requires hepatic biotransformation via 2 cytochrome dependent oxidative steps; the CYP2C19 isoenzyme is involved in both steps. Omeprazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C19. In clinical studies, use of omeprazole significantly reduced the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel when administered concomitantly or 12 hours apart.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) CYP3A4 inhibitors may reduce the metabolism of clorazepate and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. Monitor patients closely who receive concurrent therapy. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as clorazepate. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
cloZAPine: (Major) Due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with clozapine. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, TdP, cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Administration of clarithromycin has resulted in prolongation of the QT interval and TdP. In addition, clarithromycin is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, one of the isoenzymes responsible for the metabolism of clozapine. Elevated plasma concentrations of clozapine occurring through CYP inhibition may potentially increase the risk of life-threatening arrhythmias, sedation, anticholinergic effects, seizures, orthostasis, or other adverse effects. According to the manufacturer, patients receiving clozapine in combination with a CYP3A4 inhibitor should be monitored for adverse reactions. Consideration should be given to reducing the clozapine dose if necessary. If the inhibitor is discontinued after dose adjustments are made, monitor for lack of clozapine effectiveness and consider increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. (Moderate) The addition of omeprazole to clozapine therapy resulted in a roughly 40% reduction in clozapine plasma concentrations in at least 2 patients. Omeprazole is an inducer of CYP1A2, one of the isoenzymes reponsible for the metabolism of clozapine. According to the manufacturer of clozapine, patients receiving clozapine in combination with a weak to moderate CYP1A2 inducer should be monitored for loss of effectiveness. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. If the inducer is discontinued, monitor for adverse reactions, and consider reducing the clozapine dose if necessary.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of clarithromycin with regimens containing cobicistat and atazanavir or darunavir; use of an alternative antibiotic is recommended. Taking these drugs together may result in elevated concentrations of clarithromycin, cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. Both clarithromycin and cobicistat are inhibitors of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of cobimetinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of cobimetinib toxicity. Cobimetinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate as well as a CYP3A substrate in vitro; clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor and a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In healthy subjects (n = 15), coadministration of a single 10 mg dose of cobimetinib with itraconazole (200 mg once daily for 14 days), another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the mean cobimetinib AUC by 6.7-fold (90% CI, 5.6 to 8) and the mean Cmax by 3.2-fold (90% CI, 2.7 to 3.7).
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with clarithromycin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with clarithromycin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with clarithromycin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with clarithromycin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with clarithromycin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with clarithromycin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of clarithromycin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If clarithromycin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase colchicine overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Conivaptan: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of conivaptan and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the potential for increased conivaptan exposure. Conivaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of oral conivaptan by 11-fold.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea, breast tenderness, and endometrial hyperplasia. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. In addition, when chronically coadministering clarithromycin (> 30 days) with conjugated estrogens; bazedoxifene, adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated by signs and symptoms of endometrial hyperplasia, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea, breast tenderness, and endometrial hyperplasia. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. In addition, when chronically coadministering clarithromycin (> 30 days) with conjugated estrogens; bazedoxifene, adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated by signs and symptoms of endometrial hyperplasia, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea, breast tenderness, and endometrial hyperplasia. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. In addition, when chronically coadministering clarithromycin (> 30 days) with conjugated estrogens; bazedoxifene, adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated by signs and symptoms of endometrial hyperplasia, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding.
Copanlisib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of copanlisib and clarithromycin if possible; increased copanlisib exposure may occur. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the copanlisib dose to 45 mg and monitor patients for copanlisib-related adverse events (e.g., hypertension, infection, and skin rash). Copanlisib is a CYP3A substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of crizotinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased crizotinib exposure which may increase the risk for crizotinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de points (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, a crizotinib dosage reduction is required; specific dosage adjustment recommendations are dependent on age, indication, and body surface area (BSA). For adult patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) or inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMT), decrease the crizotinib dose to 250 mg once daily. For pediatric patients or young adults with anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) or IMT, BSA-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Crizotinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors has been observed to increase crizotinib overall exposure by 57% to 216%.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Clarithromycin may inhibit the metabolism of cyclosporine via inhibition of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, thus increasing cyclosporine's effects and the potential for toxicity. Clarithromycin may also reduce the intestinal metabolism of cyclosporine. It has been recommended to avoid cyclosporine in combination with macrolide agents or reduce the cyclosporine dosage by 50% when it is necessary to give any macrolides concurrently. Increased cyclosporine concentrations may be seen with 2 days of beginning combination therapy. In managing potential interactions between macrolides and cyclosporine, appropriate monitoring of cyclosporine concentrations is critical to help avoid graft failure or drug-related toxicity.
Cysteamine: (Major) Monitor white blood cell (WBC) cystine concentration closely when administering delayed-release cysteamine (Procysbi) with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Drugs that increase the gastric pH may cause the premature release of cysteamine from delayed-release capsules, leading to an increase in WBC cystine concentration. Concomitant administration of omeprazole 20 mg did not alter the pharmacokinetics of delayed-release cysteamine when administered with orange juice; however, the effect of omeprazole on the pharmacokinetics of delayed-release cysteamine when administered with water have not been studied.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Increased serum concentrations of dabigatran are possible when dabigatran, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, is coadministered with clarithromycin, a P-gp inhibitor. Although the coadministration of dabigatran and clarithromycin has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of dabigatran or clarithromycin in healthy subjects, patients should be monitored for increased adverse effects of dabigatran. When dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery, avoid coadministration with P-gp inhibitors like clarithromycin in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute. When dabigatran is used in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute), avoid coadministration with clarithromycin, as serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher than when administered to patients with normal renal function. P-gp inhibition and renal impairment are the major independent factors that result in increased exposure to dabigatran.
Dabrafenib: (Major) The concomitant use of dabrafenib, a CYP3A4 substrate and moderate CYP3A4 inducer, and clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and CYP3A4 substrate, may result in altered levels of either agent; avoid concomitant use if possible. If another agent cannot be substituted and coadministration of these agents is unavoidable, monitor patients closely for dabrafenib adverse reactions including skin toxicity, ocular toxicity, and cardiotoxicity and for loss of clarithromycin efficacy.
Dacomitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with dacomitinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of dacomitinib which may impact efficacy. Coadministration with another proton pump inhibitor decreased the dacomitinib Cmax and AUC by 51% and 39%, respectively.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Major) Limit the dose of saxagliptin to 2.5 mg PO once daily when administered with clarithromycin due to significantly increased saxagliptin exposure. Saxagliptin is a CYP3A substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the saxagliptin AUC up to 3.7-fold.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daraxonrasib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased daraxonrasib exposure which may increase the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased daraxonrasib overall exposure by 5.1-fold.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daridorexant and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase daridorexant exposure and the risk for daridorexant-related adverse effects. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased daridorexant overall exposure by over 400%.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with clarithromycin due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Darolutamide: (Moderate) Monitor patients more frequently for darolutamide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary due to the risk of increased darolutamide exposure; decrease the dose of darolutamide for grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions or for otherwise intolerable adverse reactions. Clarithromycin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; darolutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with another combined P-gp inhibitor and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean AUC and Cmax of darolutamide by 1.7-fold and 1.4-fold, respectively.
Darunavir: (Major) The coadministration of darunavir with clarithromycin results in increased clarithromycin concentrations and decreased concentrations of the 14-hydroxy-clarithromycin metabolite. In patients with normal renal function, coadministration of these drugs is acceptable with no dosage adjustments. For patients with a creatinine clearance (CrCl) 30 to 60 ml/min, the dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 50%; for patients with CrCl < 30 ml/min, the dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 75%. (Moderate) Coadministration of omeprazole and darunavir boosted with ritonavir may result in decreased omeprazole concentrations. Monitor patients receiving these drugs concurrently for reduced omeprazole efficacy and, if needed, consider increasing the dose of omeprazole up to a maximum of 40 mg per day.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of clarithromycin with regimens containing cobicistat and atazanavir or darunavir; use of an alternative antibiotic is recommended. Taking these drugs together may result in elevated concentrations of clarithromycin, cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. Both clarithromycin and cobicistat are inhibitors of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. (Major) The coadministration of darunavir with clarithromycin results in increased clarithromycin concentrations and decreased concentrations of the 14-hydroxy-clarithromycin metabolite. In patients with normal renal function, coadministration of these drugs is acceptable with no dosage adjustments. For patients with a creatinine clearance (CrCl) 30 to 60 ml/min, the dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 50%; for patients with CrCl < 30 ml/min, the dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 75%. (Moderate) Coadministration of omeprazole and darunavir boosted with ritonavir may result in decreased omeprazole concentrations. Monitor patients receiving these drugs concurrently for reduced omeprazole efficacy and, if needed, consider increasing the dose of omeprazole up to a maximum of 40 mg per day. (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of clarithromycin with regimens containing cobicistat and atazanavir or darunavir; use of an alternative antibiotic is recommended. Taking these drugs together may result in elevated concentrations of clarithromycin, cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. Both clarithromycin and cobicistat are inhibitors of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. (Major) The coadministration of darunavir with clarithromycin results in increased clarithromycin concentrations and decreased concentrations of the 14-hydroxy-clarithromycin metabolite. In patients with normal renal function, coadministration of these drugs is acceptable with no dosage adjustments. For patients with a creatinine clearance (CrCl) 30 to 60 ml/min, the dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 50%; for patients with CrCl < 30 ml/min, the dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 75%. (Moderate) Coadministration of omeprazole and darunavir boosted with ritonavir may result in decreased omeprazole concentrations. Monitor patients receiving these drugs concurrently for reduced omeprazole efficacy and, if needed, consider increasing the dose of omeprazole up to a maximum of 40 mg per day. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold. (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dasatinib and clarithromycin due to the potential for increased dasatinib exposure and subsequent toxicity including QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). An alternative to clarithromycin with no or minimal enzyme inhibition potential is recommended if possible. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider a dasatinib dose reduction to 40 mg PO daily if original dose was 140 mg daily, 20 mg PO daily if original dose was 100 mg daily, or 20 mg PO daily if original dose was 70 mg daily. Stop dasatinib during use of clarithromycin in patients receiving dasatinib 60 mg or 40 mg PO daily. If dasatinib is not tolerated after dose reduction, either discontinue clarithromycin or stop dasatinib until clarithromycin is discontinued. Allow a washout of approximately 1 week after clarithromycin is stopped before increasing the dasatinib dose or reinitiating dasatinib. Dasatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate that has the potential to prolong the QT interval; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of dasatinib by 4-fold and 5-fold, respectively. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with dasatinib film-coated oral tablets, such as Sprycel. Consider using an alternative dasatinib dosage form, such as Phyrago, or antacids. Separate the administration of all dasatinib oral tablet dosage forms and antacids by at least 2 hours. PPIs alter gastric pH and interfere with the absorption of some dasatinib dosage forms which may reduce dasatinib efficacy. The use of a PPI with Sprycel reduced dasatinib overall exposure by 43%.
Deflazacort: (Major) Decrease deflazacort dose to one third of the recommended dosage when coadministered with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may significantly increase concentrations of 21-desDFZ, the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in an increased risk of toxicity. Deflazacort is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Administration of deflazacort with clarithromycin increased total exposure to 21-desDFZ by about 3-fold.
Degarelix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with degarelix. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Demeclocycline: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Desflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with clarithromycin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with deutetrabenazine. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for steroid-related adverse reactions if coadministration of clarithromycin with dexamethasone is necessary, due to increased dexamethasone exposure; Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression could potentially occur with long-term use. Consider the use of corticosteroids such as beclomethasone and prednisolone, whose concentrations are less affected by strong CYP3A inhibitors, especially for long-term use. Dexamethasone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Another strong CYP3A inhibitor has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Use amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and proton pump inhibitors concomitantly with caution. Gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents may increase exposure to amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and exacerbate its actions.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Quinidine (including dextromethorphan; quinidine) and disopyramide are also associated with QT prolongation and TdP. There have been post-marketing reports of TdP occurring with the coadministration of clarithromycin and quinidine or disopyramide. If used concomitantly, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and consider monitoring serum concentrations of quinidine or disopyramide.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a significant inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Clarithromycin could theoretically inhibit the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of oxidized benzodiazepines, such as diazepam. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with omeprazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP2C19 substrate and omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for diazoxide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase diazoxide exposure. Diazoxide is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor was predicted to increase diazoxide overall exposure by 1.1- to 2-fold.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and amoxicillin together with caution. Dichlorphenamide increases potassium excretion and can cause hypokalemia and should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause hypokalemia including amoxicillin. Measure potassium concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If hypokalemia occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. Also, practitioners should be alert to the possibility that breakthrough bleeding or contraceptive failure may occur with clarithromycin.
Digoxin: (Major) Clarithromycin has been reported to increase the digoxin AUC by 70% when digoxin is administered orally. No significant changes in digoxin exposure were reported when digoxin was administered intravenously (IV). Originally, this interaction was thought to be due to inhibition of intestinal flora, which leads to decreased intestinal metabolism of digoxin to inactive digoxin reduction products (DRPs). While this may occur, only 5% of a digoxin dose is subject to metabolism by gut flora and this mechanism does not account for the large increases in digoxin levels that occur with the coadministration of clarithromycin. A more important factor is clarithromycin inhibition of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), an energy-dependent drug efflux pump. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate. Inhibition of this protein in the intestinal cell wall leads to increased oral absorption and decreased renal and non-renal clearance of digoxin. Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating clarithromycin. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing the oral digoxin dose by approximately 30 to 50% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. No dosage adjustment is required when digoxin is administered IV. (Moderate) Omeprazole or other proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) can affect digoxin absorption due to their long-lasting effect on gastric acid secretion. Additionally, PPIs may slightly increase digoxin bioavailability. Omeprazole increases the AUC of digoxin by about 10%. Patients with digoxin serum levels at the upper end of the therapeutic range may need to be monitored for potential increases in serum digoxin levels when a PPI is coadministered with digoxin. Finally, PPIs have been associated with hypomagnesemia. Because, low serum magnesium may lead to irregular heartbeat and increase the likelihood of serious cardiac arrhythmias, clinicians should monitor serum magnesium concentrations periodically in patients taking a PPI and digoxin concomitantly. Patients who develop hypomagnesemia may require PPI discontinuation in addition to magnesium replacement. (Minor) Displacement of penicillins from plasma protein binding sites by highly protein bound drugs like digoxin will elevate the level of free penicillin in the serum. The clinical significance of this interaction is unclear. It is recommended to monitor these patients for increased adverse effects.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with clarithromycin is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and diltiazem, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving diltiazem therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and heart rate. Diltiazem is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Disopyramide: (Major) Concurrent administration of clarithromycin and disopyramide has been associated with post-marketing reports of torsades de pointes (TdP) and hypoglycemia. If these drugs are administered together, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation, blood glucose concentrations, and consider monitoring disopyramide serum concentrations. Both clarithromycin and disopyramide have been associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Monitor patients to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dose of disulfiram when taken concomitantly with omeprazole. In a single patient, the combined use of disulfiram and omeprazole caused disorientation, confusion, and nightmares. These reactions occurred on 2 separate challenges when omeprazole was added to disulfiram therapy.
DOCEtaxel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of docetaxel with clarithromycin if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of docetaxel. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for docetaxel-related adverse reactions and consider a 50% dose reduction of docetaxel. Docetaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased docetaxel exposure by 2.2-fold.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and clarithromycin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of proton pump inhibitors and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Proton pump inhibitors inhibit secretion of gastric acid by proton pumps thereby increasing the gastric pH; for optimal absorption, rilpivirine requires an acidic environment. Coadministration of a proton pump inhibitor and rilpivirine may result in decreased rilpivirine absorption/serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine. (Major) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering clarithromycin with rilpivirine due to an increased potential for rilpivirine-related adverse events. When possible, alternative antibiotics should be considered. Predictions about the interaction can be made based on metabolic pathways. Clarithromycin is an inhibitor of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in increased rilpivirine plasma concentrations. Also, supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as clarithromycin.
Donepezil: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Clarithromycin has a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and use of clarithromycin or combinations containing clarithromycin (including amoxicillin; clarithromycin; lansoprazole and amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil. In addition, donepezil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin, may increase donepezil concentrations, potentially resulting in dose-related toxicity. However, the clinical effect of such an interaction on the response to donepezil has not been determined.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Clarithromycin has a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and use of clarithromycin or combinations containing clarithromycin (including amoxicillin; clarithromycin; lansoprazole and amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil. In addition, donepezil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin, may increase donepezil concentrations, potentially resulting in dose-related toxicity. However, the clinical effect of such an interaction on the response to donepezil has not been determined.
Doravirine: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and clarithromycin may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and clarithromycin may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and clarithromycin may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) CYP450 enzyme inhibitors, like clarithromycin, may inhibit the 25-hydroxylation of doxercalciferol, thereby decreasing the formation of the active metabolite and thus, decreasing efficacy. Patients should be monitored for a decrease in efficacy if CYP450 inhibitors are coadministered with doxercalciferol. (Moderate) Cytochrome P450 enzyme inhibitors, such as omeprazole, may inhibit the 25-hydroxylation of doxercalciferol, thereby decreasing the formation of the active metabolite and thus, decreasing efficacy.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor; doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Concurrent use of CYP3A4 inhibitors or P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor; doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Concurrent use of CYP3A4 inhibitors or P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Doxycycline: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks. (Minor) Consider additional monitoring, alternative antimicrobial therapy, or an alternative doxycycline formulation for patients with risk factors for doxycycline treatment failure that require a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). PPIs alter gastric pH and have been observed to reduce the overall bioavailability of oral doxycycline formulations containing doxycycline monohydrate by 38%. The clinical relevance of this change in exposure varies by doxycycline indication. Other formulations of doxycycline may be less affected.
droNABinol: (Major) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with clarithromycin is necessary, and monitor for an increase in dronabinol-related adverse reactions (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence). Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant use may result in elevated plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone with clarithromycin is contraindicated. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Omeprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving other agents that may prolong the QT interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with droperidol include clarithromycin.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. Also, practitioners should be alert to the possibility that breakthrough bleeding or contraceptive failure may occur with clarithromycin.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of clarithromycin. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin, should be avoided.
Duvelisib: (Major) Reduce duvelisib dose to 15 mg PO twice daily and monitor for increased toxicity when coadministered with clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase the exposure of duvelisib. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The increase in exposure to duvelisib is estimated to be approximately 2-fold when used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as clarithromycin.
Edoxaban: (Major) Reduce the dose of edoxaban to 30 mg/day PO in patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism and receiving concomitant therapy with clarithromycin. No dosage adjustment is required in patients with atrial fibrillation. Edoxaban is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of clarithromycin; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Major) The manufacturer of efavirenz recommends that alternatives to clarithromycin be considered when a macrolide antibiotic is required in patients receiving efavirenz. Coadministration of efavirenz and clarithromycin may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes TdP. QT prolongation has also been observed with use of efavirenz. In addition, concurrent use of efavirenz with clarithromycin 500 mg PO every 12 hours for seven days resulted in a significant decrease in the serum concentration of clarithromycin, but the clinical significance of this is not known. (Minor) Efavirenz inhibits and CYP2C19 and may inhibit the metabolism of omeprazole since it is a substrate for CYP2C19.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) The manufacturer of efavirenz recommends that alternatives to clarithromycin be considered when a macrolide antibiotic is required in patients receiving efavirenz. Coadministration of efavirenz and clarithromycin may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes TdP. QT prolongation has also been observed with use of efavirenz. In addition, concurrent use of efavirenz with clarithromycin 500 mg PO every 12 hours for seven days resulted in a significant decrease in the serum concentration of clarithromycin, but the clinical significance of this is not known. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Efavirenz inhibits and CYP2C19 and may inhibit the metabolism of omeprazole since it is a substrate for CYP2C19.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) The manufacturer of efavirenz recommends that alternatives to clarithromycin be considered when a macrolide antibiotic is required in patients receiving efavirenz. Coadministration of efavirenz and clarithromycin may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes TdP. QT prolongation has also been observed with use of efavirenz. In addition, concurrent use of efavirenz with clarithromycin 500 mg PO every 12 hours for seven days resulted in a significant decrease in the serum concentration of clarithromycin, but the clinical significance of this is not known. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Efavirenz inhibits and CYP2C19 and may inhibit the metabolism of omeprazole since it is a substrate for CYP2C19.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elacestrant and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased elacestrant exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elacestrant overall exposure by 5.3-fold.
Elagolix: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of elagolix and strong organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1 inhibitors such as clarithromycin is contraindicated. Use of elagolix with drugs that inhibit OATP1B1 may increase elagolix plasma concentrations. Elagolix is a substrate of CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1. Clarithromycin significantly inhibits OATP1B1, and also inhibits CYP3A and P-gp. Another OATP1B1 potent inhibitor increased elagolix AUC in the range of 2- to 5.58-fold. Increased elagolix concentrations increase the risk for dose-related side effects, including loss of bone mineral density. Consider an alternative to clarithromycin in a patient receiving elagolix. (Moderate) Coadministration of elagolix with omeprazole may increase plasma concentrations of omeprazole. Consider dosage reduction of omeprazole when elagolix is used concomitantly with higher doses of omeprazole, e.g., in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome; however, no dose adjustments are needed for omeprazole at doses of 40 mg once daily or lower. Elagolix is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor and omeprazole is a CYP2C19 sensitive substrate.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of elagolix and strong organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1 inhibitors such as clarithromycin is contraindicated. Use of elagolix with drugs that inhibit OATP1B1 may increase elagolix plasma concentrations. Elagolix is a substrate of CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1. Clarithromycin significantly inhibits OATP1B1, and also inhibits CYP3A and P-gp. Another OATP1B1 potent inhibitor increased elagolix AUC in the range of 2- to 5.58-fold. Increased elagolix concentrations increase the risk for dose-related side effects, including loss of bone mineral density. Consider an alternative to clarithromycin in a patient receiving elagolix. (Moderate) Coadministration of elagolix with omeprazole may increase plasma concentrations of omeprazole. Consider dosage reduction of omeprazole when elagolix is used concomitantly with higher doses of omeprazole, e.g., in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome; however, no dose adjustments are needed for omeprazole at doses of 40 mg once daily or lower. Elagolix is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor and omeprazole is a CYP2C19 sensitive substrate. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. Also, practitioners should be alert to the possibility that breakthrough bleeding or contraceptive failure may occur with clarithromycin.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Concurrent administration of elbasvir with clarithromycin should be avoided if possible; consider use of azithromycin in place of clarithromycin. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly increase the plasma concentration of elbasvir, and may result in adverse effects (i.e., elevated ALT concentrations and hepatotoxicity). Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of the hepatic enzyme CYP3A, while elbasvir is metabolized by CYP3A. (Major) Concurrent administration of grazoprevir with clarithromycin should be avoided if possible; consider use of azithromycin in place of clarithromycin. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly increase the plasma concentration of grazoprevir, and may result in adverse effects (i.e., elevated ALT concentrations and hepatotoxicity). Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of the hepatic enzyme CYP3A, while grazoprevir is metabolized by CYP3A. In addition, plasma concentrations of clarithromycin (also a CYP3A substrate) may be increased when given with grazoprevir (a weak CYP3A inhibitor).
Eletriptan: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of clarithromycin due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) If clarithromycin and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor to twice a week in the morning, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4) when coadministered with clarithromycin; omit the evening dose of ivacaftor. Coadministration may increase elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. Elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elexacaftor exposure by 2.8- fold, tezacaftor exposure by 4.5-fold, and ivacaftor exposure by 15.6-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of tezacaftor; ivacaftor when coadministered with clarithromycin; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet twice a week, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tezacaftor and ivacaftor exposure 4- and 15.6-fold, respectively.
Eliglustat: (Major) In intermediate or poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (IMs or PMs), coadministration of clarithromycin and eliglustat is contraindicated. In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs), coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. The coadministration of eliglustat with both clarithromycin and a moderate or strong CYP2D6 inhibitor is contraindicated in all patients. Both eliglustat and clarithromycin can independently prolong the QT interval, and coadministration increases this risk. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors such as clarithromycin increases eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias); this risk is the highest in CYP2D6 IMs and PMs because a larger portion of the eliglustat dose is metabolized via CYP3A.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is metabolized by CYP1A2. The significance of administering inducers of CYP1A2, such as omeprazole, on the systemic exposure of eltrombopag has not been established. Monitor patients for a decrease in the efficacy of eltrombopag if these drugs are coadministered.
Eluxadoline: (Major) Consider a reduction of the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and clarithromycin is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of clarithromycin with regimens containing cobicistat and atazanavir or darunavir; use of an alternative antibiotic is recommended. Taking these drugs together may result in elevated concentrations of clarithromycin, cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. Both clarithromycin and cobicistat are inhibitors of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold. (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of clarithromycin with regimens containing cobicistat and atazanavir or darunavir; use of an alternative antibiotic is recommended. Taking these drugs together may result in elevated concentrations of clarithromycin, cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. Both clarithromycin and cobicistat are inhibitors of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) The plasma concentrations of omeprazole may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as GI effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of proton pump inhibitors and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Proton pump inhibitors inhibit secretion of gastric acid by proton pumps thereby increasing the gastric pH; for optimal absorption, rilpivirine requires an acidic environment. Coadministration of a proton pump inhibitor and rilpivirine may result in decreased rilpivirine absorption/serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine. (Major) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering clarithromycin with rilpivirine due to an increased potential for rilpivirine-related adverse events. When possible, alternative antibiotics should be considered. Predictions about the interaction can be made based on metabolic pathways. Clarithromycin is an inhibitor of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in increased rilpivirine plasma concentrations. Also, supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as clarithromycin. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of proton pump inhibitors and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Proton pump inhibitors inhibit secretion of gastric acid by proton pumps thereby increasing the gastric pH; for optimal absorption, rilpivirine requires an acidic environment. Coadministration of a proton pump inhibitor and rilpivirine may result in decreased rilpivirine absorption/serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine. (Major) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering clarithromycin with rilpivirine due to an increased potential for rilpivirine-related adverse events. When possible, alternative antibiotics should be considered. Predictions about the interaction can be made based on metabolic pathways. Clarithromycin is an inhibitor of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in increased rilpivirine plasma concentrations. Also, supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as clarithromycin. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of encorafenib and clarithromycin due to the risk for decreased clarithromycin exposure, increased encorafenib exposure, and increased risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, an encorafenib dosage reduction is required: reduce a daily dose of 450 mg to 150 mg, reduce the daily dose to 75 mg for all other dosages. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications may prolong the QT interval. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased encorafenib overall exposure by 3-fold. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A-based interactions of clarithromycin with another CYP3A inducer. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole and encorafenib as omeprazole exposure may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Enfortumab vedotin: (Moderate) Closely monitor for signs of enfortumab vedotin-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase unconjugated monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) exposure, which may increase the incidence or severity of enfortumab-vedotin toxicities. MMAE, the microtubule-disrupting component of enfortumab vedotin, is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; clarithromycin is a dual P-gp/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Based on physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling predictions, concomitant use of enfortumab vedotin with another dual P-gp/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the exposure of unconjugated MMAE by 38%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with clarithromycin due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of entrectinib with clarithromycin due to the risk for increased entrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is necessary in adults and pediatric patients 2 years and older, reduce the dose of entrectinib (600 mg/day to 100 mg/day; 400 mg or 300 mg/day to 50 mg/day; 200 mg/day to 50 mg every other day) and limit coadministration to 14 days or less. For pediatric patients with a starting dose less than 200 mg, avoid coadministration. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Entrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of entrectinib by 6-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of enzalutamide, a strong CYP3A4 inducer and a moderate CYP2C19 inducer, and omeprazole, a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate, as omeprazole plasma exposure may be reduced. In a drug interaction trial in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer, the AUC and Cmax of omeprazole was decreased following a single oral dose of omeprazole 20 mg administered after at least 55 days of oral enzalutamide 160 mg/day. (Major) Coadministration of enzalutamide and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction; consider alternatives to clarithromycin if treatment with enzalutamide is necessary. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible.
Eplerenone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of clarithromycin and eplerenone is contraindicated. Clarithromycin potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with clarithromycin is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with clarithromycin is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
eriBULin: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with eribulin include clarithromycin.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with clarithromycin if possible due to the increased risk of erlotinib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable and severe reactions occur, reduce the dose of erlotinib by 50 mg decrements. Erlotinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased erlotinib exposure by 67%. (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with omeprazole if possible due to decreases in erlotinib plasma concentrations. Erlotinib solubility is pH dependent and solubility decreases as pH increases. Coadministration of erlotinib with medications that increase the pH of the upper gastrointestinal tract may decrease the absorption of erlotinib. Separation of doses may not eliminate the interaction since proton pump inhibitors affect the pH of the upper GI tract for an extended period of time. Increasing the dose of erlotinib is also not likely to compensate for the loss of exposure. Coadministration with omeprazole decreased erlotinib exposure by 46% and the erlotinib Cmax by 61%.
Escitalopram: (Major) Escitalopram has been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration with other drugs that have a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as clarithromycin, should be done with caution and close monitoring. In addition, escitalopram is metabolized by CYP3A4. Theoretically, clarithromycin may inhibit this enzyme and lead to elevated plasma levels of this SSRI. However, because escitalopram is metabolized by multiple enzyme systems, inhibition of one pathway may not appreciably decrease its clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in escitalopram-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with omeprazole is necessary. An empiric escitalopram dosage reduction may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for adverse effects, such as age older than 60 years. Concomitant use has been observed to increase escitalopram concentrations by 51% to 94%, which may increase the risk for adverse effects.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Coadministration of eslicarbazepine and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking CYP3A4 inducers. (Moderate) Eslicarbazepine may inhibit the CYP2C19-mediated and induce the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of omeprazole; both enzymes are involved in the metabolism of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). It is unclear that the theoretical interaction would result in a net increase or decrease in PPI action. Some manufacturers recommend avoiding the coadministration of hepatic cytochrome P-450 enzyme inducers and PPIs. If eslicarbazepine and PPI must be used together, monitor the patient closely for signs and symptoms of GI bleeding or other signs and symptoms of reduced PPI efficacy, or for signs of PPI side effects.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as estazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. Also, practitioners should be alert to the possibility that breakthrough bleeding or contraceptive failure may occur with clarithromycin.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. Also, practitioners should be alert to the possibility that breakthrough bleeding or contraceptive failure may occur with clarithromycin.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. Also, practitioners should be alert to the possibility that breakthrough bleeding or contraceptive failure may occur with clarithromycin.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. Also, practitioners should be alert to the possibility that breakthrough bleeding or contraceptive failure may occur with clarithromycin.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of clarithromycin with progesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Progesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A4. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin). (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. Also, practitioners should be alert to the possibility that breakthrough bleeding or contraceptive failure may occur with clarithromycin.
Eszopiclone: (Major) The adult dose of eszopiclone should not exceed 2 mg/day during co-administration of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin. CYP3A4 is a primary metabolic pathway for eszopiclone, and increased systemic exposure to eszopiclone increases the risk of next-day psychomotor or memory impairment, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. Although other macrolide antibiotics, such as erythromycin, inhibit CYP3A4 to a lesser extent than clarithromycin, a clinically relevant interaction is possible, and dose adjustments of eszopiclone may be necessary.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and loop diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia. (Minor) Ethacrynic acid may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. This combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Etonogestrel: (Minor) Coadministration of etonogestrel and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin may increase the serum concentration of etonogestrel.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Minor) Coadministration of etonogestrel and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin may increase the serum concentration of etonogestrel.
Etrasimod: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and clarithromycin in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Coadministration of etravirine and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking CYP3A4 inducers.
Everolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of everolimus with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased everolimus-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable in patients receiving everolimus for either kidney or liver transplant, closely monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/P-gp inhibitor increased the AUC of everolimus by 15-fold.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of clarithromycin and simvastatin is contraindicated due to the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If no alternative to a short course of clarithromycin therapy is available, simvastatin use must be suspended during clarithromycin treatment. Simvastatin is metabolized by CYP3A4, and clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fedratinib with clarithromycin as concurrent use may increase fedratinib exposure. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of fedratinib to 200 mg PO once daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, increase the fedratinib dose as follows: 300 mg PO once daily for 2 weeks and then 400 mg PO once daily thereafter as tolerated. Fedratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased fedratinib exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for increased omeprazole adverse effects as coadministration of omeprazole and fedratinib increased omeprazole exposure by 3-fold in a drug interaction study. Although dose adjustments are not generally needed, patients with Zollinger-Ellison's syndrome who often require higher omeprazole doses may require an adjustment in omeprazole dose. Omeprazole is metabolized primarily by CYP2C19 and secondarily by CYP3A4; fedratinib is an inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4.
Felodipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and felodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving felodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and heart rate. Felodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. If clarithromycin is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like clarithromycin can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If clarithromycin is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Fesoterodine: (Major) Limit the dose of fesoterodine to 4 mg once daily in adults and pediatric patients weighing more than 35 kg if coadministered with clarithromycin. Avoid use of fesoterodine and clarithromycin in pediatric patients weighing 25 to 35 kg. Concurrent use may increase fesoterodine exposure. Fesoterodine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor led to approximately a doubling of the overall exposure of 5-hydroxymethyl tolterodine (5-HMT), the active metabolite of fesoterodine.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease the exposure and efficacy of both drugs. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and clarithromycin for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of clarithromycin for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Finerenone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of finerenone and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk for finerenone-related adverse reactions. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by more than 400%.
Fingolimod: (Major) Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. After the first fingolimod dose, overnight monitoring with continuous ECG in a medical facility is advised for patients taking QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsades de pointes (TdP). Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with fingolimod include clarithromycin.
Flecainide: (Major) Due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with flecainide. Administration of clarithromycin has resulted in prolongation of the QT interval and TdP. Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP; flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs which have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias.
Flibanserin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of flibanserin and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin, is contraindicated. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase flibanserin concentrations, which can cause severe hypotension and syncope. If initiating flibanserin following use of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, start flibanserin at least 2 weeks after the last dose of the CYP3A4 inhibitor. If initiating a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor following flibanserin use, start the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor at least 2 days after the last dose of flibanserin. (Moderate) Use of omeprazole may increase flibanserin concentrations, potentially increasing the risk for severe hypotension, syncope, and/or CNS depression. Monitor for flibanserin-induced adverse reactions; consider if a different PPI would be a better choice for the patient. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor, and has been noted to cause clinically important drug interactions with certain CYP2C19 substrates. Flibanserin is a CYP2C19 substrate. Interactions may be especially significant for patients who are also known CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration is contraindicated. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and clarithromycin has been specifically established to have a causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Additionally, fluconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and clarithromycin is a known inhibitor and substrate of CYP3A4. In healthy volunteers, the coadministration of clarithromycin (500 mg orally twice daily) with fluconazole (200 mg once daily) led to increases in clarithromycin mean steady-state Cmin (33%) and AUC (18%); however, mean steady-state concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin were not affected. The changes appeared to be of minor consequence in healthy subjects. The potential for a more significant interaction between fluconazole and clarithromycin might exist at higher dosages of either drug; caution is advised in such circumstances but should not normally alter therapy. Fluconazole is usually considered a less potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 than other azole-family systemic antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole), especially at dosages of < 200 mg/day. Azithromycin can be considered as an alternative macrolide antimicrobial if appropriate for the clinical circumstance, due to its lack of metabolism via CYP3A4.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of clarithromycin and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with fluphenazine. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP, while fluphenazine (a phenothiazine) is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of flurazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. Monitor patients closely who receive concurrent therapy. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as flurazepam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Fluticasone: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and clarithromycin is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with strong inhibitors increased plasma fluticasone exposure resulting in 45% to 86% decreases in serum cortisol AUC. A strong inhibitor increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of salmeterol with clarithromycin. Concomitant use increases salmeterol exposure and may increase the incidence and severity of salmeterol-related adverse effects. Signs and symptoms of excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation commonly include tachyarrhythmias, hypertension, and tremor. Salmeterol is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased salmeterol overall exposure 16-fold mainly due to increased bioavailability of the swallowed portion of the dose. (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and clarithromycin is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with strong inhibitors increased plasma fluticasone exposure resulting in 45% to 86% decreases in serum cortisol AUC. A strong inhibitor increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and clarithromycin is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with strong inhibitors increased plasma fluticasone exposure resulting in 45% to 86% decreases in serum cortisol AUC. A strong inhibitor increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and clarithromycin is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with strong inhibitors increased plasma fluticasone exposure resulting in 45% to 86% decreases in serum cortisol AUC. A strong inhibitor increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate.
Fluvastatin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of omeprazole with fluvastatin can decrease fluvastatin clearance by 18 to 23%, and increase AUC by 24 to 33%. (Moderate) Rare reports of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking clarithromycin and fluvastatin. Use together with caution and monitor for symptoms of myopathy and/or rhabdomyolysis.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of fluvoxamine and clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP while QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine. (Moderate) Omeprazole is a primary substrate of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Reduced metabolism and resulting elevated plasma concentrations of omeprazole may occur if combined with fluvoxamine. Fluvoxamine is a strong inhibitor of CYP2C19 and a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant administration of omeprazole and a combined inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 resulted in more than doubling of the omeprazole exposure. No specific dose adjustments are recommended, unless the patient is receiving high doses of omeprazole, as for Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome; in such patients, omeprazole dose reduction might be necessary.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use during clarithromycin treatment. Concomitant use may alter the exposure of some cannabinoids and increase the risk for adverse reactions. The cannabinoids delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are CYP3A substrates and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of a cannabinoid product containing THC and CBD at an approximate 1:1 ratio with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased THC, 11-OH-THC, and CBD peak exposures by 1.3-, 3-, and 1.9-fold respectively.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and mometasone may increase systemic exposure to mometasone, increasing the risk of corticosteroid-related adverse events. Exercise caution when administering mometasone with clarithromycin long-term and monitor closely for hypercorticism and adrenal suppression. Mometasone is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased fosamprenavir toxicity if coadministered with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of fosamprenavir. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as clarithromycin. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin is also associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole and fosphenytoin as omeprazole exposure may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase phenytoin concentrations. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor and CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a CYP2C19 substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Coadministration of fosphenytoin and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking potent CYP3A4 inducers. Additionally, there have been postmarketing reports of interactions of clarithromycin and phenytoin, which may also occur with fosphenytoin. The clarithromycin manufacturer recommends caution if coadministered.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with fostemsavir. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and loop diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia. (Minor) Furosemide may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. This combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Futibatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of futibatinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased futibatinib exposure which may increase the risk for futibatinib-related adverse effects. Futibatinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased futibatinib overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Gefitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of omeprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with gemifloxacin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Gemifloxacin may also prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and clarithromycin together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab ozogamicin, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Gepirone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepotidacin and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased gepotidacin exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepotidacin overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Consider an alternative to clarithromycin during treatment with gilteritinib due to increased gilteritinib exposure and the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration is required, frequently monitor for gilteritinib-related and cardiac toxicity. Interrupt therapy and reduce the gilteritinib dose if serious or life-threatening toxicity occurs. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with clarithromycin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of glecaprevir and clarithromycin as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of glecaprevir and increase the risk of adverse effects. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1/3; clarithromycin is an inhibitor of P-gp and OATP1B1/3. (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of pibrentasvir and clarithromycin as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of pibrentasvir and increase the risk of adverse effects. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); clarithromycin is an inhibitor of P-gp.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Goserelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with goserelin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with granisetron. Both granisetron and clarithromycin are associated with prolongation of the QT interval, and clarithromycin has also been associated with an established risk for TdP.
guanFACINE: (Major) Clarithromycin may significantly increase guanfacine plasma concentrations. FDA-approved labeling for extended-release (ER) guanfacine recommends that, if these agents are taken together, the guanfacine dosage should be decreased to half of the recommended dose. Specific recommendations for immediate-release (IR) guanfacine are not available. Monitor patients closely for alpha-adrenergic effects including hypotension, drowsiness, lethargy, and bradycardia. If clarithromycin is discontinued, the guanfacine ER dosage should be increased back to the recommended dose. Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with clarithromycin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Haloperidol: (Major) Concurrent use of clarithromycin and haloperidol should be avoided if possible. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of haloperidol, caution is advisable when prescribing the drug concurrently with medications known to prolong the QT interval. Because clarithromycin is also associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and TdP, the need to coadminister clarithromycin with drugs known to prolong the QT interval should be done with a careful assessment of risks versus benefits. Clarithromycin is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Elevated haloperidol concentrations occurring through inhibition of CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 may increase the risk of adverse effects, including QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like clarithromycin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If clarithromycin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like clarithromycin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If clarithromycin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like clarithromycin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If clarithromycin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if hydrocortisone is used with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase hydrocortisone exposure. Hydrocortisone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Other strong CYP3A inhibitors have been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Ibrexafungerp: (Major) Decrease the ibrexafungerp dose to 150 mg PO every 12 hours for 1 day if administered concurrently with clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased ibrexafungerp exposure and toxicity. Ibrexafungerp is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC and Cmax of ibrexafungerp by 5.8-fold and 2.5-fold, respectively.
Ibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibrutinib and clarithromycin; ibrutinib plasma concentrations may increase resulting in severe ibrutinib toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, bleeding, infection). If short-term use of clarithromycin is necessary (e.g., 7 days or less), interrupt ibrutinib treatment. Resume ibrutinib at the previous dose when clarithromycin is discontinued. Ibrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased ibrutinib exposure by 5.7-fold to 24-fold.
Ibutilide: (Major) Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with omeprazole, a CYP3A substrate, as omeprazole toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib. (Major) Coadministration of idelalisib with clarithromycin may increase idelalisib exposure; use alternative agents if possible. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, monitor patients frequently for signs and symptoms of idelalisib-related adverse reactions (e.g., hepatotoxicity, diarrhea, neutropenia, and infection). Idelalisib and clarithromycin are both CYP3A4 substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased idelalisib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of ifosfamide if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Ifosfamide is metabolized by CYP3A4 to its active alkylating metabolites. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of these active metabolites, decreasing the effectiveness of ifosfamide treatment.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of iloperidone and clarithromycin due to the potential for QT prolongation; iloperidone exposure may also increase. If coadministration cannot be avoided, decrease the iloperidone dose by one-half. Resume the prior iloperidone dose if clarithromycin is discontinued. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Iloperidone is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of iloperidone and its metabolites P88 and P95 by 57%, 55% and 35%, respectively.
Imatinib: (Minor) Clarithromycin is a significant inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes and should be used cautiously with CYP3A4 substrates, such as imatinib, due to the potential for reduced metabolism and drug accumulation.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Indomethacin: (Minor) Indomethacin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. This combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of infigratinib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, infigratinib may be administered two hours before or ten hours after an H2-receptor antagonist or two hours before or after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased infigratinib exposure by 45%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with clarithromycin due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Insulins: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Irinotecan Liposomal: (Major) Avoid administration of clarithromycin during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 1 week prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are CYP3A4 substrates; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase systemic exposure of irinotecan and SN-38.
Irinotecan: (Major) Avoid administration of clarithromycin during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 1 week prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are CYP3A4 substrates; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase systemic exposure of irinotecan and SN-38.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Iron: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with clarithromycin may result in increased serum concentrations of both drugs. Clarithromycin is a substrate and moderate inhibitor of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a sensitive substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with omeprazole may result in increased serum concentrations of omeprazole. Omeprazole is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with clarithromycin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Isradipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and isradipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving isradipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely. Isradipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Istradefylline: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with clarithromycin as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Itraconazole: (Major) Caution is advised when administering itraconazole with drugs that are known to prolong that QT interval and are metabolized by CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin. Consider use of azithromycin in place of clarithromycin. Both clarithromycin and itraconazole are associated with QT prolongation; coadministration may increase this risk. In addition, both drugs are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A4. Coadministration may result in increased plasma concentrations of both drugs, thereby further increasing the risk for adverse events. If itraconazole therapy is stopped, it may be prudent to continue close monitoring for up to 2 weeks after discontinuing itraconazole. Once discontinued, the plasma concentration of itraconazole decreases to almost undetectable concentrations within 7 to 14 days. The decline in plasma concentrations may be even more gradual in patients with hepatic cirrhosis or who are receiving concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitors. Azithromycin can be considered as an alternative macrolide antimicrobial if appropriate for the clinical circumstance, due to its lack of metabolism via CYP3A4. (Moderate) When administering proton pump inhibitors with the 100 mg itraconazole capsule and 200 mg itraconazole tablet formulations, systemic exposure to itraconazole is decreased. Conversely, exposure to itraconazole is increased when proton pump inhibitors are administered with the 65 mg itraconazole capsule. Administer proton pump inhibitors at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after the 100 mg capsule or 200 mg tablet. Monitor for increased itraconazole-related adverse effects if proton pump inhibitors are administered with itraconazole 65 mg capsules.
Ivabradine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ivabradine and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Ivabradine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration will increase the plasma concentrations of ivabradine. Increased ivabradine concentrations may result in bradycardia exacerbation and conduction disturbances.
Ivacaftor: (Major) If clarithromycin and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with clarithromycin due to increased plasma concentrations of ivosidenib and additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ivosidenib to 250 mg PO once daily. Monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes, correcting any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. If clarithromycin is discontinued, wait at least 5 half-lives of clarithromycin before increasing the dose of ivosidenib to the recommended dose of 500 mg PO once daily. Ivosidenib is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with QTc prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased ivosidenib single-dose AUC to 269% of control, with no change in Cmax.
Ixabepilone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and clarithromycin due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and clarithromycin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse events. Both ketoconazole and clarithromycin are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Administer clarithromycin and zidovudine at least 2 hours apart. Simultaneous oral administration of clarithromycin immediate-release tablets and zidovudine may result in decreased steady-state zidovudine concentrations. The impact of coadministration of clarithromycin extended-release tablets or granules and zidovudine has not been evaluated.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lapatinib with clarithromycin due to increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib; QT prolongation may also occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, decrease the dose of lapatinib to 500 mg PO once daily. Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities prior to treatment. If clarithromycin is discontinued, increase lapatinib to the indicated dose after a washout period of approximately 1 week. Lapatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have also been reported in postmarketing experience. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lapatinib exposure by 3.6-fold and increased the half-life of lapatinib by 1.7-fold.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of larotrectinib with clarithromycin due to increased larotrectinib exposure resulting in increased treatment-related adverse effects. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the larotrectinib dose by 50%. If clarithromycin is discontinued, resume the original larotrectinib dose after 3 to 5 elimination half-lives of clarithromycin. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of larotrectinib by 4.3-fold in a drug interaction study.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Major) Solubility of ledipasvir decreases as gastric pH increases; thus, coadministration of ledipasvir; sofosbuvir with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may result in lower ledipasvir plasma concentrations. Ledipasvir can be administered with PPIs if given simultaneously under fasting conditions. The PPI dose should not exceed a dose that is comparable to omeprazole 20 mg/day.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with clarithromycin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation; concurrent use may also increase exposure from lefamulin tablets which may increase the risk of adverse effects. Lefamulin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate that has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Clarithromycin is a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration of a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the exposure of oral and intravenous lefamulin by 165% and 31%, respectively.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and clarithromycin as concurrent use is expected to significantly increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of lemborexant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the lemborexant AUC by up to 4.5-fold.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of leniolisib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased leniolisib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Leniolisib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased leniolisib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Clarithromycin is also associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Letermovir: (Moderate) Administering clarithromycin concurrently with letermovir may result in elevated concentrations of both drugs. The impact on the serum concentration of clarithromycin may be increased in patients receiving letermovir with cyclosporine. Closely monitor for adverse events including tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, gastrointestinal events, dizziness, or confusion. Clarithromycin is an inhibitor of the organic anion-transporting polypeptides (OATP1B1/3), and a substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. When given with cyclosporine, the combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use with another CYP3A inhibitor increased clarithromycin exposure (AUC) by 94%, and decreased AUC of 14-OH clarithromycin by 70%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced omeprazole efficacy and adjust the dose of omeprazole if needed during concurrent use of letermovir. Coadministration may result in a clinically relevant decrease in the plasma concentration of omeprazole. Omeprazole is a sensitive substrate of CYP2C19. Letermovir is a CYP2C19 inducer.
Leuprolide: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Levamlodipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and clarithromycin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse events. Both ketoconazole and clarithromycin are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Levomilnacipran: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention.
Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and clarithromycin may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; clarithromycin inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and clarithromycin may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; clarithromycin inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and clarithromycin may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; clarithromycin inhibits CYP3A4.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of lithium and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor ECG if lofexidine is coadministered with clarithromycin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of TdP. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Lomitapide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of clarithromycin and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with clarithromycin is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Markedly increased transaminases have been reported with coadministration. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and clarithromycin is contraindicated; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the exposure of lonafarnib by 425%. (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with lonafarnib. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and loop diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with clarithromycin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). (Major) Because the exposure to 14-OH clarithromycin is significantly decreased by ritonavir, consider alternative antibiotic therapy for indications other than Mycobacterium avium. Clarithromycin doses above 1000 mg should not be administered with ritonavir. If coadministration cannot be avoided, clarithromycin dosage reductions are recommended in patients with renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 60 mL/minute, decrease clarithromycin by 50%; CrCl less than 30 mL/minute, decrease clarithromycin by 75%). Concomitant administration of ritonavir and clarithromycin resulted in a 77% increase in clarithromycin exposure and a 100% decrease in 14-OH clarithromycin exposure. The microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria. (Moderate) Increased exposure to omeprazole may occur during concurrent administration of ritonavir. Although dosage adjustment of omeprazole is not normally required, dosage reduction may be considered in patients receiving higher omeprazole doses (e.g., those with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome). Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of a dual CYP2C19/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the omeprazole AUC by an average of 4-times.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with clarithromycin due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; plasma concentrations of clarithromycin may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 plasma half-lives of clarithromycin. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes will decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Lovastatin: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of lovastatin and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If no alternative to a short course of treatment with clarithromycin therapy is available, lovastatin use must be suspended during clarithromycin treatment. Lovastatin is metabolized by CYP3A4, and clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration if possible; lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the therapeutic efficacy of clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor microbiological activity and adjust drug dosages as necessary. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor dosage adjustment is not required when clarithromycin is started in a patient already taking lumacaftor; ivacaftor. However, if lumacaftor; ivacaftor is initiated in a patient already taking clarithromycin, reduce the dose of lumacaftor; ivacaftor to 1 tablet PO daily or 1 packet of oral granules every other day for the first week of treatment, and then increase to the usual recommended daily dose. This dosage adjustment is also necessary if lumacaftor; ivacaftor therapy has been interrupted for more than 1 week and re-initiated while the patient is taking clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate, and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Increasing the metabolism of clarithromycin decreases plasma concentrations of clarithromycin, but increases plasma concentrations of 14-OH-clarithromycin (active metabolite); the microbiological activity of each is different for different bacteria. In addition, the inhibitory effects of clarithromycin may increase the systemic exposure of ivacaftor. In pharmacokinetic studies, coadministration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, increased ivacaftor exposure by 4.3-fold. However, because lumacaftor is a strong inducer of CYP3A, the net exposure of ivacaftor at steady state is not expected to exceed that achieved with ivacaftor monotherapy (i.e., 150 mg PO every 12 hours). (Major) If clarithromycin and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold. (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of omeprazole by substantially decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, an omeprazole dosage adjustment may be necessary to obtain the desired therapeutic effect. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong inducer of CYP3A; in vitro data suggests is also has the potential to induce CYP2C19.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration if possible; lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the therapeutic efficacy of clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor microbiological activity and adjust drug dosages as necessary. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor dosage adjustment is not required when clarithromycin is started in a patient already taking lumacaftor; ivacaftor. However, if lumacaftor; ivacaftor is initiated in a patient already taking clarithromycin, reduce the dose of lumacaftor; ivacaftor to 1 tablet PO daily or 1 packet of oral granules every other day for the first week of treatment, and then increase to the usual recommended daily dose. This dosage adjustment is also necessary if lumacaftor; ivacaftor therapy has been interrupted for more than 1 week and re-initiated while the patient is taking clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate, and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Increasing the metabolism of clarithromycin decreases plasma concentrations of clarithromycin, but increases plasma concentrations of 14-OH-clarithromycin (active metabolite); the microbiological activity of each is different for different bacteria. In addition, the inhibitory effects of clarithromycin may increase the systemic exposure of ivacaftor. In pharmacokinetic studies, coadministration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, increased ivacaftor exposure by 4.3-fold. However, because lumacaftor is a strong inducer of CYP3A, the net exposure of ivacaftor at steady state is not expected to exceed that achieved with ivacaftor monotherapy (i.e., 150 mg PO every 12 hours). (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of omeprazole by substantially decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, an omeprazole dosage adjustment may be necessary to obtain the desired therapeutic effect. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong inducer of CYP3A; in vitro data suggests is also has the potential to induce CYP2C19.
Lumateperone: (Major) Reduce the dose of lumateperone to 10.5 mg once daily if concomitant use of clarithromycin is necessary. Concurrent use may increase lumateperone exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lumateperone is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumateperone exposure by approximately 4-fold.
Lurasidone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of lurasidone with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin, is contraindicated. Lurasidone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. Increased lurasidone plasma concentrations are expected when the drug is co-administered with inhibitors of CYP3A4.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lurbinectedin and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased lurbinectedin exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of lurbinectedin by 50%. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of lurbinectedin by 2.7-fold.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as clarithromycin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and clarithromycin for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of clarithromycin for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Mafenide: (Minor) Sulfonamides may compete with amoxicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing amoxicillin serum concentrations. Use this combination with caution, and monitor patients for increased side effects.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins, and sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Maraviroc: (Major) Coadministration of maraviroc (a substrate of CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1) with clarithromycin (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp/OATP1B1 inhibitor) may result in increased maraviroc concentrations. Reduce the dose of maraviroc when coadministered with strong CYP3A inhibitors; coadministration of maraviroc with strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/min. Adjust the maraviroc dosage as follows when administered with clarithromycin (with or without a concomitant CYP3A inducer): adults and children weighing 40 kg or more: 150 mg PO twice daily; children weighing 30 to 39 kg: 100 mg PO twice daily; children weighing 20 to 29 kg: 75 mg PO twice daily (or 80 mg PO twice daily for solution); children weighing 10 to 19 kg: 50 mg PO twice daily; children weighing 2 to 9 kg: use not recommended.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting clarithromycin therapy. Avoid initiation of clarithromycin in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable clarithromycin therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers. (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting omeprazole therapy. Avoid initiation of omeprazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable omeprazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and omeprazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use of mavacamten 10 mg with omeprazole 20 mg once daily increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48% with no effect on peak exposure in healthy CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and clarithromycin may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects, including QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation; however due to the lack of clinical data, mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as clarithromycin. In addition, mefloquine is metabolized by CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Clarithromycin is an inhibitor of these enzymes and may decrease the clearance of mefloquine and further increasing the risk for QT prolongation. (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may increase plasma concentrations of mefloquine. Patients on chronic mefloquine therapy might be at increased risk of adverse reactions, especially patients with a neurological or psychiatric history.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Major) Limit the dose of saxagliptin to 2.5 mg PO once daily when administered with clarithromycin due to significantly increased saxagliptin exposure. Saxagliptin is a CYP3A substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the saxagliptin AUC up to 3.7-fold.
Methadone: (Major) The need to coadminister methadone with drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as clarithromycin, should be done with extreme caution and a careful assessment of treatment risks versus benefits. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). In addition, methadone is a substrate for CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Concurrent use of methadone with clarithromycin, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp, may result in increased serum concentrations of methadone.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Methotrexate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methotrexate and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) due to the risk of severe methotrexate-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for adverse reactions; consider temporary withdrawal of the PPI in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. Concomitant use of methotrexate, primarily at high dose, and PPIs may increase and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methotrexate with penicillins due to the risk of severe methotrexate-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for adverse reactions.
Methylergonovine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
methylPREDNISolone: (Minor) Postmarketing reports of interactions with coadministration of clarithromycin and methylprednisolone have been noted. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may decrease the clearance of methylprednisolone if coadministered.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midazolam: (Major) Dose adjustments of oral midazolam may be necessary when coadministered with clarithromycin. Midazolam is metabolized by hepatic isozyme CYP3A4. Inhibitors of this pathway, such as clarithromycin, can potentiate the clinical effects of midazolam. Interactions of this type are most pronounced with oral midazolam. However, the pharmacokinetics of IV midazolam may also be affected to a lesser extent. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as midazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mifepristone with clarithromycin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the exposure of both drugs may also be increased. If concomitant use of mifepristone is necessary for the treatment of Cushing's syndrome in a patient already receiving clarithromycin, initiate mifepristone at a dose of 300 mg and titrate to a maximum of 900 mg if clinically indicated. If therapy with clarithromycin is initiated in a patient already receiving mifepristone 300 mg, dosage adjustments are not required. If therapy with clarithromycin is initiated in a patient already receiving mifepristone 600 mg, reduce dose of mifepristone to 300 mg and titrate to a maximum of 600 mg if clinically indicated. If therapy with clarithromycin is initiated in a patient already receiving 900 mg, reduce dose of mifepristone to 600 mg and titrate to a maximum of 900 mg if clinically indicated. If therapy with clarithromycin is initiated in a patient already receiving 1,200 mg, reduce the mifepristone dose to 900 mg. Both mifepristone and clarithromycin are substrates and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 that are associated with QT prolongation.
Minocycline: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirvetuximab Soravtansine: (Moderate) Closely monitor for mirvetuximab soravtansine-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of clarithromycin is necessary. DM4, the cytotoxic component of mirvetuximab soravtansine, is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase unconjugated DM4 exposure.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with clarithromycin due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased mitapivat overall exposure by 3.6 to 4.9-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Coadministration of mitotane and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking potent CYP3A4 inducers. (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and omeprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of omeprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of omeprazole.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and clarithromycin. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Modafinil: (Major) Coadministration of modafinil and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking CYP3A4 inducers. Additionally, clarithromycin is a significant inhibitor of CYP3A4, which may increase serum concentrations of modafinil.
Momelotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in momelotinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase momelotinib exposure. Momelotinib is an OATP1B1/3 substrate; clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor increased momelotinib exposure by 57%; exposure of its active M21 metabolite increased by 12%.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and mometasone may increase systemic exposure to mometasone, increasing the risk of corticosteroid-related adverse events. Exercise caution when administering mometasone with clarithromycin long-term and monitor closely for hypercorticism and adrenal suppression. Mometasone is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concurrent use of clarithromycin and moxifloxacin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Moxifloxacin has also been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Additionally, post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including TdP, usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin; therefore, the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with mycophenolate mofetil (Cellcept) appears to reduce MPA exposure AUC-12h (25.8 +/- 6.4 mg/L x h with omeprazole vs. 33.3 +/- 11.5 mg//L x h without omeprazole); however, the interaction does not appear to exist with mycophenolate sodium delayed-release tablets (Myfortic). Reduced systemic exposure of MPA after mycophenolate mofetil in the presence of a PPI appears to be due to impaired absorption of mycophenolate mofetil which may occur because of incomplete dissolution of mycophenolate mofetil in the stomach at elevated pH. The clinical significance of reduced MPA exposure is unknown; however patients should be evaluated periodically if mycophenolate mofetil is administered with a PPI. Of note, MPA concentrations appear to be reduced in the initial hours after mycophenolate mofetil receipt but increase later in the dosing interval because of enterohepatic recirculation. A second peak in the concentration-time profile of MPA is observed 612 hours after dosing due to enterohepatic recirculation. For example, the 12-hour plasma concentrations of MPA were similar among patients who received mycophenolate mofetil with or without omeprazole. The biphasic plasma concentration-time course of MPA due to extensive enterohepatic circulation hampers therapeutic drug monitoring of MPA. Drug exposure as measured by AUC-12h is the best estimator for the clinical effectiveness of mycophenolate, but measurement of full-dose interval MPA AUC-12h requires collection of multiple samples over a 12-hour period; MPA predose concentrations correlate poorly with MPA AUC-12h. The interaction does not appear to exist with Mycophenolate sodium (Myfortic). (Moderate) Drugs that alter the gastrointestinal flora may interact with mycophenolate by disrupting enterohepatic recirculation. Amoxicillin;Clavulanic Acid may decrease normal GI flora levels and thus lead to less free mycophenolate available for absorption. The effect of amoxicillin without clavulantic acid on mycophenolate kinetics is unclear.
Naldemedine: (Major) Monitor for potential naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with clarithromycin. The plasma concentrations of naldemedine may be increased during concurrent use. Naldemedine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp; clarithromycin is a moderate P-gp inhibitor and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Naloxegol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of naloxegol with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated. Naloxegol is metabolized primarily by the CYP3A enzyme system. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin, can significantly increase exposure to naloxegol which may precipitate opioid withdrawal symptoms such as hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, irritability, and yawning.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of nab-paclitaxel with clarithromycin is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) The use of clarithromycin and oral hypoglycemic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. With certain hypoglycemic drugs such as nateglinide, inhibition of CYP3A by clarithromycin may occur, and dose adjustment of nateglinide may be needed. Careful monitoring of glucose is recommended.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Use of proton pump inhibitors with nelfinavir is not recommended. Coadministration may result in decreased nelfinavir exposure, subtherapeutic antiretroviral activity, and possibility resistant HIV mutations. In one study, concurrent use of nelfinavir with omeprazole resulted in decreased nelfinavir AUC, Cmax, and Cmin by 36%, 37%, and 39%, respectively.
Nerandomilast: (Major) Decrease the nerandomilast dose to 9 mg twice daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nerandomilast exposure and the risk for nerandomilast-related adverse effects. Nerandomilast is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased nerandomilast overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of clarithromycin with neratinib due to an increased risk of neratinib-related toxicity. Neratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased neratinib exposure by 381%; concomitant use with other strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 may also increase neratinib concentrations. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of neratinib with proton pump inhibitors due to decreased absorption and systemic exposure of neratinib; the solubility of neratinib decreases with increasing pH of the GI tract. Concomitant use with lansoprazole decreased neratinib exposure by 65%.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Netupitant is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should be used with caution in patients receiving concomitant medications that are primarily metabolized through CYP3A4; the inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 can last for multiple days. Clarithromycin is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and increased concentrations may lead to an increased risk for side effects, including QT prolongation. In addition, netupitant is mainly metabolized by CYP3A4. Coadministration of netupitant; palonosetron with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor such as clarithromycin can significantly increase the systemic exposure to netupitant. No dosage adjustment is necessary for single dose administration of netupitant; palonosetron. Co-administration of single dose netupitant 600 mg and palonosetron 1.5 mg had no significant effects on the QTc interval.
Nevirapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nevirapine and clarithromycin. Coadministration of nevirapine and clarithromycin significantly decreases clarithromycin serum concentrations. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Additionally, the exposure of nevirapine may also be increased, leading to increased toxicity. Nevirapine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased nevirapine exposure by 100%; concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor may also increase nevirapine exposure.
NiCARdipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and nicardipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving nicardipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely. Nicardipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
NIFEdipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and nifedipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving nifedipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely. Nifedipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nilotinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased nilotinib exposure, which may increase the risk of nilotinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, a nilotinib dosage reduction is required; specific management recommendations vary by indication and dosage form. For patients receiving nilotinib for resistant or intolerant Ph+ CML, reduce the nilotinib once daily dose to: 300 mg for capsules, 142 mg for tablets, 120 mg for oral disintegrating tablets. For patients receiving nilotinib for newly diagnosed Ph+ CML, reduce the nilotinib once daily dose to: 200 mg for capsules, 95 mg for tablets, 80 mg for oral disintegrating tablets. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Nilotinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased nilotinib overall exposure by 3-fold. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib capsules or tablets with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). If therapy that alters gastric pH is required, consider the use of nilotinib oral disintegrating tablets or an H2-blocker or antacid. Separate the administration of nilotinib capsules or tablets and an H2-blocker or antacid: give H2-blockers 10 hours before or 2 hours after nilotinib capsules or tablets, separate antacids from nilotinib capsules or tablets by 2 hours. Nilotinib capsules and tablets display pH-dependent solubility and therapy that raises gastric pH may interfere with nilotinib absorption and reduce nilotinib exposure and efficacy. A PPI has been observed to reduce the absorption of nilotinib capsules and tablets by 34%.
niMODipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and nimodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving nimodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Dual inhibitors of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, are expected to increase the exposure and clinical effect of nintedanib. If use together is necessary, closely monitor for increased nintedanib side effects including gastrointestinal toxicity (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, loss of appetite), headache, elevated liver enzymes, and hypertension. A dose reduction, interruption of therapy, or discontinuation of nintedanib therapy may be necessary. Clarithromycin is a moderate P-gp inhibitor and a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4; nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor CYP3A4 substrate. Administration of nintedanib with a dual P-gp and CYP3A4 inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Because the exposure to 14-OH clarithromycin is significantly decreased by ritonavir, consider alternative antibiotic therapy for indications other than Mycobacterium avium. Clarithromycin doses above 1000 mg should not be administered with ritonavir. If coadministration cannot be avoided, clarithromycin dosage reductions are recommended in patients with renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 60 mL/minute, decrease clarithromycin by 50%; CrCl less than 30 mL/minute, decrease clarithromycin by 75%). Concomitant administration of ritonavir and clarithromycin resulted in a 77% increase in clarithromycin exposure and a 100% decrease in 14-OH clarithromycin exposure. The microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria. (Moderate) Increased exposure to omeprazole may occur during concurrent administration of ritonavir. Although dosage adjustment of omeprazole is not normally required, dosage reduction may be considered in patients receiving higher omeprazole doses (e.g., those with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome). Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of a dual CYP2C19/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the omeprazole AUC by an average of 4-times.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased nirogacestat exposure which may increase the risk for nirogacestat-related adverse effects. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase nirogacestat overall exposure by 3.46-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and proton pump inhibitors. Concurrent use may impair nirogacestat absorption which may decrease nirogacestat exposure and reduce its efficacy. Antacids may be used with nirogacestat but administration should be separated by at least 2 hours.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with clarithromycin, particularly in geriatric patients, due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving nisoldipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Norethindrone: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Norgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Octreotide: (Moderate) Coadministration of oral octreotide with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may require increased doses of octreotide. Coadministration of oral octreotide with drugs that alter the pH of the upper GI tract, including PPIs, may alter the absorption of octreotide and lead to a reduction in bioavailability. This interaction has been documented with esomeprazole and can occur with the other PPIs.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with olanzapine. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Additionally, clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of clarithromycin and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with olanzapine. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Additionally, clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with olanzapine. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Additionally, clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased olaparib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of olaparib to 100 mg twice daily; the original dose may be resumed 3 to 5 elimination half-lives after clarithromycin is discontinued. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase olaparib exposure. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the olaparib Cmax by 42% and the AUC by 170%.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and clarithromycin is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and clarithromycin may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If clarithromycin is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8). (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and mometasone may increase systemic exposure to mometasone, increasing the risk of corticosteroid-related adverse events. Exercise caution when administering mometasone with clarithromycin long-term and monitor closely for hypercorticism and adrenal suppression. Mometasone is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Omadacycline: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) The combination of rifabutin and clarithromycin should be avoided. Clarithromycin is a substrate and inhibitor of CYP3A4, and rifabutin is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. The metabolism of rifabutin is inhibited by clarithromycin, possibly through inhibition of CYP3A4. Inhibition of rifabutin metabolism results in significant increases in rifabutin serum concentrations and adverse reactions. Also, rifabutin increases the metabolism of clarithromycin resulting in significant decreases in clarithromycin concentrations thereby reducing the antimicrobial efficacy of clarithromycin. As compared with the plasma concentration obtained with clarithromycin monotherapy, the clarithromycin plasma concentration was reduced by 63% when rifabutin 600 mg daily was coadministered. Specifically, as monotherapy, the mean serum clarithromycin concentration was 5.4 +/- 2.1 mcg/ml. The mean serum clarithromycin concentration was 2 +/- 1.5 mcg/ml when given in combination with rifabutin. The mean serum concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin were similar between the two groups.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Oral Contraceptives: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin.
Orforglipron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of orforglipron and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased orforglipron exposure which may increase the risk for orforglipron-related adverse effects. Orforglipron is a CYP3A and OATP1B substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and OATP1B inhibitor. Concomitant use increased orforglipron overall exposure by 3.5-fold.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Administration of oritavancin, a weak inhibitor of CYP2C19, with omeprazole resulted in a 15% increase in the ratio of omeprazole to 5-OH-omeprazole concentrations in the plasma. Monitor patients for omeprazole toxicities, such as headache or gastrointestinal distress, if these drugs are administered concurrently. (Moderate) Clarithromycin is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of clarithromycin may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with osilodrostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Ospemifene: (Moderate) Coadministration of clarithromycin and ospemifene may increase ospemifene systemic concentrations and increase the risk of ospemifene-related adverse reactions. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, and ospemifene is a CYP3A4 substrate. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increase the systemic exposure of ospemifene by approximately1.4-fold.
Oveporexton: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of oveporexton and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase oveporexton exposure and the risk for oveporexton-related adverse reactions. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased oveporexton exposure by 7.4-fold.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with oxaliplatin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal TdP have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
OXcarbazepine: (Major) Coadministration of oxcarbazepine and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking CYP3A4 inducers.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Oxybutynin is metabolized by CYP3A4. Serum concentrations of oxybutynin may be increased when administered with inhibitors of the CYP3A4 enzyme system, including clarithromycin.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. If clarithromycin is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor like clarithromycin can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If clarithromycin is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking clarithromycin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
PACLitaxel: (Minor) Paclitaxel is partially metabolized by CYP3A4. The systemic clearance of paclitaxel may be decreased if coadministered with clarithromycin, an inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Pacritinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease clarithromycin exposure and efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer, clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Palbociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with palbociclib; significantly increased palbociclib exposure may occur. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of palbociclib to 75 mg PO once daily and monitor for increased adverse reactions. If clarithromycin is discontinued, increase the palbociclib dose (after 3 to 5 half-lives of atazanavir) to the dose used before initiation of clarithromycin. Palbociclib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction trial, coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC and Cmax of palbociclib by 87% and 34%, respectively.
Paliperidone: (Major) Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as clarithromycin. However, if coadministration is considered necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased palovarotene exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased palovarotene overall exposure by 3-fold.
Paltusotine: (Moderate) Avoid the use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) in patients already on paltusotine 60 mg. For those on other paltusotine doses, monitor for a decrease in paltusotine efficacy during concomitant use of paltusotine and a PPI and increase the paltusotine dosage as appropriate based on response. PPIs alter gastric pH and interfere with paltusotine absorption which may reduce paltusotine exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use reduced the overall exposure of 20 mg and 60 mg of paltusotine by 21% and 42%, respectively.
Panobinostat: (Major) The co-administration of panobinostat with clarithromycin is not recommended; QT prolongation has been reported with both agents. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, reduce the panobinostat dose from 20 mg PO to 10 mg PO and closely monitor electrocardiograms during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and panobinostat is a CYP3A4 substrate. The panobinostat Cmax and AUC (0-48hr) values were increased by 62% and 73%, respectively, in patients with advanced cancer who received a single 20 mg-dose of panobinostat after taking 14 days of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. This interaction may be relevant to combination products containing clarithromycin, such as amoxicillin; clarithromycin; lansoprazole (Prevpac) and amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole (Omeclamox-Pak) triple therapy packs.
Paricalcitol: (Moderate) Care should be taken when dosing paricalcitol with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin. Dose adjustments of paricalcitol may be required. Monitor plasma PTH and serum calcium and phosphorous concentrations if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with this combination.
Pasireotide: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Cautious use of pasireotide and clarithromycin is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of pazopanib and other drugs that prolong the QT interval is not advised; pazopanib and clarithromycin have been reported to prolong the QT interval. If pazopanib and clarithromycin must be continued, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. In addition, pazopanib is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an inhibitor of P-gp, and substrate of CYP3A4. Concurrent administration of clarithromycin and pazopanib may result in increased pazopanib and/or clarithromycin concentrations; avoid use of these agents together if possible. If co-administration of pazopanib and clarithromycin is unavoidable, reduce the pazopanib dose to 400 mg PO once daily; further dose adjustments may be necessary if adverse effects occur. (Major) Pazopanib displays pH-dependent solubility with decreased solubility at a higher pH. The concomitant use of pazopanib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) that elevate the gastric pH may reduce the bioavailability of pazopanib. In a study of patients with solid tumors, the AUC and Cmax of pazopanib were decreased by approximately 40% when coadministered with esomeprazole. If a drug is needed to raise the gastric pH, consider use of a short-acting antacid; separate antacid and pazopanib dosing by several hours.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased pemigatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pemigatinib to 9 mg PO once daily if original dose was 13.5 mg per day and to 4.5 mg PO once daily if original dose was 9 mg per day. If clarithromycin is discontinued, resume the original pemigatinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of clarithromycin. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased pemigatinib exposure by 88%.
Pentamidine: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with clarithromycin include intravenous pentamidine.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Concurrent use of perampanel with clarithromycin may increase exposure to perampanel and increase plasma concentrations. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an enzyme responsible for perampanel metabolism. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger, anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Perphenazine: (Minor) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with perphenazine. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP, while perphenazine (a phenothiazine) is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with perphenazine. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP, while perphenazine (a phenothiazine) is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pexidartinib with omeprazole as concurrent use may decrease pexidartinib exposure which may result in decreased therapeutic response. As an alternative to a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), use locally-acting antacids or H2-receptor antagonists. Coadministration of another PPI decreased pexidartinib exposure by 50%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pexidartinib and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased pexidartinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects; concomitant use may also decrease clarithromycin plasma concentrations and reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pexidartinib dosage as follows: 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg twice daily; 250 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg once daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, increase the pexidartinib dose to the original dose after 3 plasma half-lives of clarithromycin. Pexidartinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pexidartinib exposure by 70%. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Major) There have been spontaneous and/or published reports of interactions between clarithromycin and phenobarbital. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes, such as phenobarbital will increase the metabolism of clarithromycin, thus decreasing plasma concentrations of clarithromycin, while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OHclarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. Alternative antibacterial treatment should be considered when treating patients receiving inducers of CYP3A. Clinicians should observe patients closely for infection resolution if these drugs are administered concurrently.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Major) There have been spontaneous and/or published reports of interactions between clarithromycin and phenobarbital. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes, such as phenobarbital will increase the metabolism of clarithromycin, thus decreasing plasma concentrations of clarithromycin, while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OHclarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. Alternative antibacterial treatment should be considered when treating patients receiving inducers of CYP3A. Clinicians should observe patients closely for infection resolution if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole and phenytoin as omeprazole exposure may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase phenytoin concentrations. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor and CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a CYP2C19 substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Coadministration of phenytoin and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking potent CYP3A4 inducers. Additionally, there have been postmarketing reports of interactions of clarithromycin and phenytoin. The clarithromycin manufacturer recommends caution if coadministered.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Coadministration of pimavanserin and clarithromycin should be avoided if possible. Clarithromycin is associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation. In addition, pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. Concurrent use of a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, is expected to increase pimavanserin exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the pimavanserin dose to 10 mg/day PO and closely monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Because of the potential for TdP, use of macrolide antibiotics with pimozide is contraindicated.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and oral hypoglycemic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. With certain hypoglycemic drugs such as the thiazolidinediones, inhibition of CYP3A enzyme by clarithromycin may be involved; however, CYP3A is not a major metabolism route for pioglitazone and rosiglitazone. Careful monitoring of glucose is recommended.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended. (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and oral hypoglycemic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. With certain hypoglycemic drugs such as the thiazolidinediones, inhibition of CYP3A enzyme by clarithromycin may be involved; however, CYP3A is not a major metabolism route for pioglitazone and rosiglitazone. Careful monitoring of glucose is recommended.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and oral hypoglycemic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. With certain hypoglycemic drugs such as the thiazolidinediones, inhibition of CYP3A enzyme by clarithromycin may be involved; however, CYP3A is not a major metabolism route for pioglitazone and rosiglitazone. Careful monitoring of glucose is recommended.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pirtobrutinib and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased pirtobrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pirtobrutinib dose by 50 mg. If the current pirtobrutinib dosage is 50 mg once daily, interrupt pirtobrutinib treatment for the duration of clarithromycin use. Resume the previous dose of pirtobrutinib after clarithromycin is discontinued for 5 half-lives. Pirtobrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pirtobrutinib overall exposure by 49%.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with clarithromycin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Pivekimab sunirine: (Moderate) Monitor for pivekimab sunirine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to FGN849, the cytotoxic component of pivekimab sunirine. FGN849 is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Polatuzumab Vedotin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased polatuzumab vedotin toxicity during coadministration of clarithromycin due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of polatuzumab vedotin, MMAE. MMAE is metabolized by CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors are predicted to increase the exposure of MMAE by 45%.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Bisacodyl: (Minor) The concomitant use of bisacodyl oral tablets with drugs that raise gastric pH like proton pump inhibitors can cause the enteric coating of the bisacodyl tablets to dissolve prematurely, leading to possible gastric irritation or dyspepsia. When taking bisacodyl tablets, it is advisable to avoid PPIs within 1 hour before or after the bisacodyl dosage.
PONATinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ponatinib and clarithromycin due to the potential for increased ponatinib exposure. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, reduce the ponatinib dose to the next lower dose level (45 mg to 30 mg; 30 mg to 15 mg; 15 mg to 10 mg). If the patient is taking ponatinib 10 mg once daily prior to concurrent use, avoid the use of clarithromycin and consider alternative therapy. After clarithromycin has been discontinued for 3 to 5 half-lives, resume the dose of ponatinib that was tolerated prior to starting clarithromycin. Ponatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the ponatinib AUC by 78%.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking clarithromycin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of posaconazole and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk of life threatening arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider use of azithromycin in place of clarithromycin. Both posaconazole and clarithromycin are inhibitors of CYP3A, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of clarithromycin. Further, clarithromycin is an inhibitor of the drug efflux protein P-gp for which posaconazole is a substrate and an inhibitor. This complex interaction may ultimately result in altered plasma concentrations of both posaconazole and clarithromycin and an increased risk for serious adverse events. Additionally, both drugs have been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes. (Major) The concurrent use of posaconazole immediate-release oral suspension and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) should be avoided, if possible, due to the potential for decreased posaconazole efficacy. If used in combination, closely monitor for breakthrough fungal infections. PPIs increase gastric pH, resulting in decreased posaconazole absorption and lower posaconazole plasma concentrations. When a single 400 mg dose of posaconazole oral suspension was administered with esomeprazole (40 mg PO daily), the mean reductions in Cmax were 46% and the mean reductions in AUC were 32% for posaconazole. The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole delayed-release tablets and oral suspension are not significantly affected by PPIs. Additionally, posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of many PPIs (dexlansoprazole, esomeprazole, lansoprazole, omeprazole, pantoprazole, and rabeprazole). Coadministration may result in increased plasma concentration of the PPIs.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of clarithromycin and pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of pralsetinib to 200 mg once daily for patients taking a daily dose of 400 mg or 300 mg, and to 100 mg once daily for patients taking a daily dose of 200 mg. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a combined strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a combined strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 251%.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Pravastatin: (Major) Do not exceed 40 mg per day of pravastatin if coadministration with clarithromycin cannot be avoided. Concurrent use increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Coadministration of clarithromycin increased the AUC and Cmax of pravastatin by 110% and 128%, respectively.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Major) Coadministration of primidone and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. Primidone is metabolized in the liver to produce phenobarbital and PEMA. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking CYP3A4 inducers.
Probenecid: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase colchicine overall exposure by 3.8-fold. (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Procainamide: (Major) Clarithromycin should be used cautiously with procainamide. Procainamide and clarithromycin are both associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with prochlorperazine. If coadministration is considered necessary, and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmia, then close monitoring is essential. Phenothiazines, like prochlorperazine, have been reported to prolong the QT interval, while clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Progesterone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of clarithromycin with progesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Progesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A4. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of quazepam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as quazepam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of quetiapine and clarithromycin due to the potential for additive effects on the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP) and the potential for greatly increased quetiapine exposure. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 that is expected to signficantly reduce metabolism of quetiapine. If administration of clarithromycin is required in a patient taking quetiapine, reduce the quetiapine dose to one sixth of the current dose. Monitor for quetiapine-related side effects. If clarithromycin is discontinued, increase the quetiapine dose by 6-fold. Clarithromycin has an established causal association with QT prolongation and TdP (torsade de pointes). Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that quetiapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
quiNIDine: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Quinidine (including dextromethorphan; quinidine) and disopyramide are also associated with QT prolongation and TdP. There have been post-marketing reports of TdP occurring with the coadministration of clarithromycin and quinidine or disopyramide. If used concomitantly, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and consider monitoring serum concentrations of quinidine or disopyramide.
quiNINE: (Major) Concurrent use of quinine with clarithromycin should be avoided due to the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both quinine and clarithromycin have been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. In addition, because both clarithromycin and quinine are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A4; coadministration may result in elevated plasma concentration of both drugs, causing an increased risk for adverse events.
Quizartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of clarithromycin with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Use caution with concurrent use of ramelteon and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin. Because ramelteon is partially metabolized via CYP3A4, an increase in exposure of ramelteon is expected. An increase in ramelteon AUC by approximately 84% and Cmax by 36% was noted when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (ketoconazole). Similar increases were noted in M-II pharmacokinetics. Patients should be monitored for increased ramelteon side effects. Also use caution with concurrent use of combinations containing clarithromycin, such as amoxicillin; clarithromycin; lansoprazole or amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) Ranolazine is contraindicated in patients receiving drugs known to be strong CYP3A inhibitors including clarithromycin. Inhibition of ranolazine CYP3A metabolism could lead to increased ranolazine plasma concentrations, QTc prolongation, and possibly torsade de pointes. In addition, ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. The mean increase in QTc is about 6 milliseconds, measured at the Tmax of the maximum dosage (1000 mg PO twice daily). However, in 5% of the population studied, increases in the QTc of at least 15 milliseconds have been reported. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Furthermore, clarithromycin may decrease the absorption of ranolazine via inhibition of P-glycoprotein transport.
Red Yeast Rice: (Contraindicated) Clarithromycin potently inhibits the metabolism of certain HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors ('statins') via the CYP3A4 isoenzyme and increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Since compounds in red yeast rice claim to have HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor activity, it should not be used in combination with clarithromycin.
Regorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of regorafenib with clarithromycin due to increased plasma concentrations of regorafenib and decreased plasma concentrations of the active metabolites M-2 and M-5, which may lead to increased toxicity. Regorafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased regorafenib exposure by 33% and decreased exposure of M-2 and M-5 by 93% each.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with relacorilant. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with relugolix. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Also, concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. Relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of clarithromycin is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with relugolix. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Also, concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. Relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of clarithromycin is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as clarithromycin may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events. Also, practitioners should be alert to the possibility that breakthrough bleeding or contraceptive failure may occur with clarithromycin.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and oral hypoglycemic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. With certain hypoglycemic drugs such as repaglinide, inhibition of CYP3A enzyme by clarithromycin may be involved and could cause hypolgycemia when used concomitantly. Dosage reduction of repaglinide may be needed. Careful monitoring of glucose is recommended.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and decrease clarithromycin exposure and efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold. CYP3A inducers decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin have a different spectrum of microbiologic activity.
Resmetirom: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of resmetirom and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased resmetirom exposure which may increase the risk for resmetirom-related adverse effects. Resmetirom is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Retapamulin: (Moderate) Coadministration of retapamulin with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin, in patients younger than 24 months is not recommended. Systemic exposure of topically administered retapamulin may be higher in patients younger than 24 months than in patients 2 years and older. Retapamulin is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Revefenacin: (Major) Coadministration of revefenacin is not recommended with clarithromycin because it could lead to an increase in systemic exposure of the active metabolite of revefenacin and an increase in potential for anticholinergic adverse effects. The active metabolite of revefenacin is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3; clarithromycin is an inhibitor of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3.
Revumenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib with clarithromycin due to the risk for increased revumenib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, a revumenib dosage decrease is required; dosing recommendations vary by weight. For patients weighing 40 kg or more, reduce the starting dose to 160 mg PO twice daily or 110 mg PO twice daily for those requiring a dosage reduction for adverse reactions. For patients weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the starting dose to 95 mg/m2 PO twice daily or 65 mg/m2 PO twice daily for those requiring a dosage reduction for adverse reactions. See prescribing information for additional details regarding dosage form rounding with body surface area (BSA) based dosing. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Revumenib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased revumenib overall exposure by 2- to 2.5-fold.
Ribociclib: (Major) Concomitant use of ribociclib and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ribociclib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the daily dose of ribociclib to 200 mg for patients with early breast cancer and 400 mg for patients with advanced/metastatic breast cancer. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Ribociclib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ribociclib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Concomitant use of ribociclib and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ribociclib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the daily dose of ribociclib to 200 mg for patients with early breast cancer and 400 mg for patients with advanced/metastatic breast cancer. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Ribociclib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ribociclib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) The combination of rifabutin and clarithromycin should be avoided. Clarithromycin is a substrate and inhibitor of CYP3A4, and rifabutin is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. The metabolism of rifabutin is inhibited by clarithromycin, possibly through inhibition of CYP3A4. Inhibition of rifabutin metabolism results in significant increases in rifabutin serum concentrations and adverse reactions. Also, rifabutin increases the metabolism of clarithromycin resulting in significant decreases in clarithromycin concentrations thereby reducing the antimicrobial efficacy of clarithromycin. As compared with the plasma concentration obtained with clarithromycin monotherapy, the clarithromycin plasma concentration was reduced by 63% when rifabutin 600 mg daily was coadministered. Specifically, as monotherapy, the mean serum clarithromycin concentration was 5.4 +/- 2.1 mcg/ml. The mean serum clarithromycin concentration was 2 +/- 1.5 mcg/ml when given in combination with rifabutin. The mean serum concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin were similar between the two groups.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with rifampin due to the risk of decreased omeprazole plasma concentrations which may decrease efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Major) Clarithromycin is a substrate and inhibitor of CYP3A4, and rifampin is an inducer of CYP3A4. As compared with the plasma concentration obtained with clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily as monotherapy, the clarithromycin plasma concentration was reduced by 87% when rifampin 600 mg daily was coadministered. Specifically, as monotherapy, the mean serum clarithromycin concentration was 5.4 +/- 2.1 mcg/ml. The mean serum clarithromycin concentration was 0.7 +/- 0.6 mcg/ml when given in combination with rifampin. The mean serum concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin were similar between the two groups. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking CYP3A4 inducers.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole and rifapentine as omeprazole exposure may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Major) Consider alternatives to clarithromycin if treatment with rifapentine is necessary as concurrent use may decrease efficacy of clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A-based interactions of clarithromycin with another CYP3A4 inducer.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of proton pump inhibitors and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Proton pump inhibitors inhibit secretion of gastric acid by proton pumps thereby increasing the gastric pH; for optimal absorption, rilpivirine requires an acidic environment. Coadministration of a proton pump inhibitor and rilpivirine may result in decreased rilpivirine absorption/serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine. (Major) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering clarithromycin with rilpivirine due to an increased potential for rilpivirine-related adverse events. When possible, alternative antibiotics should be considered. Predictions about the interaction can be made based on metabolic pathways. Clarithromycin is an inhibitor of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in increased rilpivirine plasma concentrations. Also, supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as clarithromycin.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Coadministration of riluzole with omeprazole may result in decreased riluzole efficacy. In vitro findings suggest decreased riluzole exposure is likely. Riluzole is a CYP1A2 substrate and omeprazole is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble; PPIs raise gastric pH and interfere with rilzabrutinib absorption. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 51%.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with clarithromycin; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Ripretinib: (Moderate) Monitor patients more frequently for ripretinib-related adverse reactions if coadministered with clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite (DP-5439), which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Ripretinib and DP-5439 are metabolized by CYP3A4 and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased ripretinib and DP-5439 exposure by 99%.
Risedronate: (Moderate) Use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with delayed-release risedronate tablets (Atelvia) is not recommended. Co-administration of drugs that raise stomach pH increases risedronate bioavailability due to faster release of the drug from the enteric coated tablet. This interaction does not apply to risedronate immediate-release tablets. In healthy subjects who received esomeprazole for 6 days, the Cmax and AUC of a single dose of risedronate delayed-release tablets (Atelvia) increased by 60% and 22%, respectively. PPIsare widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use PPIs in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. Study results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class; however, other interactions have not been confirmed and data suggest that fracture protection is not diminished when risedronate is used with PPIs. A post hoc analysis of patients who took risedronate 5 mg daily during placebo-controlled clinical trials determined that risedronate significantly reduced the risk of new vertebral fractures compared to placebo, regardless of concomitant PPI use. PPI users (n = 240) and PPI non-users (n = 2489) experienced fracture risk reductions of 57% (p = 0.009) and 38% (p < 0.001), respectively.
risperiDONE: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with risperidone. If coadministration is considered necessary, and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmia, then close monitoring is essential. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP; however, data are currently lacking to establish causality in association with TdP. Reports of QT prolongation and TdP during risperidone therapy are noted by the manufacturer, primarily in the overdosage setting.
Ritonavir: (Major) Because the exposure to 14-OH clarithromycin is significantly decreased by ritonavir, consider alternative antibiotic therapy for indications other than Mycobacterium avium. Clarithromycin doses above 1000 mg should not be administered with ritonavir. If coadministration cannot be avoided, clarithromycin dosage reductions are recommended in patients with renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 60 mL/minute, decrease clarithromycin by 50%; CrCl less than 30 mL/minute, decrease clarithromycin by 75%). Concomitant administration of ritonavir and clarithromycin resulted in a 77% increase in clarithromycin exposure and a 100% decrease in 14-OH clarithromycin exposure. The microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria. (Moderate) Increased exposure to omeprazole may occur during concurrent administration of ritonavir. Although dosage adjustment of omeprazole is not normally required, dosage reduction may be considered in patients receiving higher omeprazole doses (e.g., those with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome). Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Omeprazole is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of a dual CYP2C19/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the omeprazole AUC by an average of 4-times.
Rivaroxaban: (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic data suggests coadministration of rivaroxaban with clarithromycin is unlikely to affect bleeding risk. However, coadministration of rivaroxaban with other combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors has resulted in increased rivaroxaban exposure and is not recommended. Educate patients about the signs and symptoms of bleeding if concurrent use of clarithromycin with rivaroxaban is necessary; patients with renal impairment may be at greater risk with this combination.
romiDEPsin: (Major) The concomitant use of romidepsin, a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, and clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor, may increase romidepsin plasma exposure. If these agents are used together, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of romidepsin toxicity including hematologic toxicity, infection, and electrocardiogram (ECG) changes; therapy interruption or discontinuation or a dosage reduction may be required if toxicity develops. In addition, romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Clarithromycin may also prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin and the clarithromycin must be continued, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter OATP1B1/3 and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter OATP1B1/3 and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Ruxolitinib: (Major) Reduce the ruxolitinib dosage if concomitant use of clarithromycin is necessary in patients with myelofibrosis (MF) or polycythemia vera (PV). Dosage adjustments differ between immediate-release (IR) and extended-release (XR) ruxolitinib products. For MF, use a reduced starting dosage based on platelet count: for a platelet count of 100,000 cells/mm3 or more, reduce the starting dosage to 10 mg PO twice daily IR or 22 mg PO once daily XR; for a platelet count of 50,000 to 99,999 cells/mm3, change to 5 mg PO once daily IR. For PV, reduce the starting dosage to 5 mg PO twice daily IR or 11 mg PO once daily XR. For MF or PV patients on a stable dose of ruxolitinib, reduce the ruxolitinib dosage based on their current dose: for those on at least 10 mg PO twice daily IR or 22 mg PO once daily XR, reduce the dosage by 50%; for those on 5 mg PO twice daily IR, change to 5 mg PO once daily IR; for those on 5 mg PO once daily IR or 11 mg once daily XR, avoid the use of clarithromycin or consider a ruxolitinib therapy interruption for the duration of clarithromycin use. No dose adjustments are necessary for patients with graft-versus-host disease; however, monitor blood counts more frequently for ruxolitinib toxicity and adjust the ruxolitinib dosage as appropriate for adverse reactions. Concomitant use may increase ruxolitinib exposure and the risk for ruxolitinib-related adverse effects. Ruxolitinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ruxolitinib overall exposure by 1.9-fold.
Salmeterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of salmeterol with clarithromycin. Concomitant use increases salmeterol exposure and may increase the incidence and severity of salmeterol-related adverse effects. Signs and symptoms of excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation commonly include tachyarrhythmias, hypertension, and tremor. Salmeterol is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased salmeterol overall exposure 16-fold mainly due to increased bioavailability of the swallowed portion of the dose.
Salsalate: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of saquinavir boosted with ritonavir and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk of life threatening cardiac arrhythmias. Saquinavir prolongs the QT and PR intervals in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious cardiac arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes (TdP). The potential for saquinavir induced cardiac arrhythmias could increase if administered with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as clarithromycin. In addition to the potential for arrhythmias, because saquinavir and clarithromycin are both CYP3A4 inhibitors and substrates, clinically significant increases in the plasma concentrations of both drugs are seen with concurrent use. Coadministration of clarithromycin (500 mg twice daily) with saquinavir (Fortovase and Invirase; 1200mg three times daily) resulted in a 177% increase in saquinavir AUC, a 45% increase in clarithromycin AUC, and a 24% decrease in the clarithromycin 14-OH metabolite AUC. (Major) Coadministration with omeprazole results in significantly increased saquinavir concentrations. A similar interaction is expected with all proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). If saquinavir must be administered with PPIs, the patient should be closely monitored for saquinavir-related toxicities, including gastrointestinal symptoms, increased triglycerides, and deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Coadministration with omeprazole results in significantly increased saquinavir concentrations. In a small study, 18 healthy individuals received saquinavir 1000 mg (with ritonavir 100 mg) twice daily for 15 days; on days 11 through 15 omeprazole 40 mg was given once daily, which resulted in an 82% increase in the saquinavir AUC. A similar interaction is expected with all PPIs.
Sarecycline: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
sAXagliptin: (Major) Limit the dose of saxagliptin to 2.5 mg PO once daily when administered with clarithromycin due to significantly increased saxagliptin exposure. Saxagliptin is a CYP3A substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the saxagliptin AUC up to 3.7-fold.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sebetralstat and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased sebetralstat exposure which may increase the risk for sebetralstat-related adverse effects. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sebetralstat overall exposure by 5.2-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Secretin: (Major) Discontinue proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) before performing a secretin stimulation test for gastrinoma. PPIs may cause a hyperresponse in gastrin secretion and interfere with the test's diagnostic accuracy. The time it takes gastrin concentrations to return to baseline following PPI discontinuation is highly variable.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. In addition, drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take strong CYP3A4 inhibitors long-term and concomitantly. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include clarithromycin. (Minor) Coadministration of segesterone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin may increase the serum concentration of segesterone.
Seladelpar: (Minor) Monitor patients who are known CYP2C9 poor metabolizers more frequently for an increase in seladelpar-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use in these patients may increase seladelpar exposure. Seladelpar is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib with omeprazole due to the risk of decreased selpercatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, selpercatinib must be taken with food. Coadministration under fasting conditions with omeprazole decreased selpercatinib exposure by 69%; however, concomitant use increased selpercatinib exposure by 2% or less when it was administered with a meal. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of selpercatinib and clarithromycin due to the potential for increased selpercatinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is necessary, reduce the dose of selpercatinib (160 mg twice daily to 80 mg twice daily; 120 mg twice daily to 40 mg twice daily; 80 mg twice daily to 40 mg twice daily; 40 mg three times daily to 40 mg once daily). Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased selpercatinib exposure by 2.33-fold.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased selumetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of selumetinib to 20 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 25 mg/m2 twice daily and 15 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 20 mg/m2 twice daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, resume the original selumetinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of clarithromycin. Selumetinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased selumetinib exposure by 49%.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with clarithromycin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Sildenafil: (Major) Coadministration of clarithromycin is not recommended in patients receiving sildenafil for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). When sildenafil is used for erectile dysfunction, consider a starting dose of 25 mg for patients receiving clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase sildenafil plasma concentrations resulting in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the sildenafil AUC between 3- and 11-fold.
Silodosin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Silodosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A. Clarithromycin inhibits CYP3A and may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations.
Simvastatin: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of clarithromycin and simvastatin is contraindicated due to the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If no alternative to a short course of clarithromycin therapy is available, simvastatin use must be suspended during clarithromycin treatment. Simvastatin is metabolized by CYP3A4, and clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving clarithromycin due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Clarithromycin has also been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Additionally, concomitant use of siponimod and clarithromycin may increase siponimod exposure. If the patient is also receiving a drug regimen containing a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor, use of siponimod is not recommended due to a significant increase in siponimod exposure. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A4 dual inhibitor led to a 2-fold increase in the exposure of siponimod.
Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased sirolimus overall exposure by 10.9-fold.
Sodium Benzoate; Sodium Phenylacetate: (Moderate) Antibiotics that undergo tubular secretion such as penicillins may compete with phenylacetlyglutamine and hippuric acid for active tubular secretion. The overall usefulness of sodium benzoate; sodium phenylacetate is due to the excretion of its metabolites. An increase in metabolite concentrations could contribute to failed treatment and worsening of the patient's clinical status. This combination should be used with caution.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) The bioavailability of oral iron salts is influenced by gastric pH, and the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors can decrease iron absorption. The non-heme ferric form of iron needs an acidic intragastric pH to be reduced to ferrous and to be absorbed. Iron salts and polysaccharide-iron complex provide non-heme iron. Proton pump inhibitors have long-lasting effects on the secretion of gastric acid and thus, increase the pH of the stomach. The increase in intragastric pH can interfere with the absorption of iron salts.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with velpatasvir is not recommended. If it is considered medically necessary to coadminister, velpatasvir should be administered with food and taken 4 hours before omeprazole 20 mg. Other PPIs have not been studied; however, it may be prudent to separate the administration of the other PPIs similarly. Velpatasvir solubility decreases as pH increases; therefore, drugs that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease the concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with clarithromycin. Taking these medications together may increase the plasma concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in adverse events. Velpatasvir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and CYP3A4. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of voxilaprevir and clarithromycin due to the potential for increased voxilaprevir exposure. Voxilaprevir is a substrate for the drug transporter Organic Anion Transporting Polypeptides 1B1/1B3 (OATP1B1/1B3); clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor. (Major) Coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with velpatasvir is not recommended. If it is considered medically necessary to coadminister, velpatasvir should be administered with food and taken 4 hours before omeprazole 20 mg. Other PPIs have not been studied; however, it may be prudent to separate the administration of the other PPIs similarly. Velpatasvir solubility decreases as pH increases; therefore, drugs that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease the concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with clarithromycin. Taking these medications together may increase the plasma concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in adverse events. Velpatasvir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and CYP3A4. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Solifenacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with solifenacin if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation; plasma concentrations of solifenacin may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, do not administer more than than solifenacin 5 mg per day in adults; do not exceed the initial starting dose in pediatric patients. Periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of clarithromycin therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Solifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased solifenacin exposure by 2.7-fold. Both drugs have been associated with dose- or concentration-dependent QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP) was reported in postmarketing experience with solifenacin although causality was not determined. (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and clarithromycin; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and clarithromycin is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with clarithromycin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Sorafenib is associated with QTc prolongation. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sotorasib and gastric acid-reducing agents, such as proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Coadministration may decrease sotorasib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If necessary, sotorasib may be administered 4 hours before or 10 hours after a locally acting antacid. Coadministration with a PPI decreased sotorasib exposure by 57% under fed conditions and 42% under fasted conditions. (Major) Consider alternatives to clarithromycin if treatment with sotorasib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease efficacy of clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A-based interactions of clarithromycin with another CYP3A4 inducer.
Sparsentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of St. John's wort with the proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) as PPI exposure may be decreased, reducing their efficacy. PPIs are CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrates and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer. For example, coadministration of omeprazole with St. John's wort decreased omeprazole plasma concentrations by approximately 40%. (Moderate) St. John's Wort appears to induce CYP3A4 and may lead to increased systemic clearance of clarithromycin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Additionally, clarithromycin may increase serum concentrations of St. John's Wort due to CYP3A4 inhibition. Postmarketing reports of interactions have been noted.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose reduction of omeprazole when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of omeprazole resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions. Omeprazole is a sensitive CYP2C19 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition of CYP2C19 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
Sucralfate: (Minor) Proton pump inhibitors should be taken at least 30 minutes prior to sucralfate. Sucralfate has been shown to delay absorption and reduce the bioavailability of omeprazole by about 16%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if clarithromycin must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. If clarithromycin is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor like clarithromycin can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If clarithromycin is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
sulfADIAZINE: (Minor) Sulfonamides may compete with amoxicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing amoxicillin serum concentrations. Use this combination with caution, and monitor patients for increased side effects.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Minor) Sulfonamides may compete with amoxicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing amoxicillin serum concentrations. Use this combination with caution, and monitor patients for increased side effects.
sulfaSALAzine: (Minor) Sulfonamides may compete with amoxicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing amoxicillin serum concentrations. Use this combination with caution, and monitor patients for increased side effects.
Sulfonamides: (Minor) Sulfonamides may compete with amoxicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing amoxicillin serum concentrations. Use this combination with caution, and monitor patients for increased side effects.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with sunitinib due to increased sunitinib exposure as well as the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Sunitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate that can cause QT prolongation. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to sunitinib and its primary active metabolite by 51%.
Suvorexant: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and clarithromycin is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Suzetrigine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Major) A reduction in tacrolimus dose, frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood concentrations, and monitoring for QT prolongation is recommended if coadministered with clarithromycin as concurrent use may result in increased tacrolimus exposure and additive QT prolongation. Additional tacrolimus dosage reductions may be required. Despite an initial reduction in tacrolimus dose, a rapid, sharp increase in tacrolimus levels has been reported during coadministration with clarithromycin. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Both tacrolimus and clarithromycin are associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Use this combination with caution. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of omeprazole and tacrolimus may increase tacrolimus serum concentrations possibly leading to increased risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, infection, QT prolongation), especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood concentrations; reduce tacrolimus dose if needed to maintain therapeutic concentrations.
Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and clarithromycin for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of clarithromycin for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, may reduce tadalafil clearance. Increased systemic exposure to tadalafil may result in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection.
Talazoparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with talazoparib when used for the treatment of breast cancer due to increased talazoparib exposure. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of talazoparib to 0.75 mg PO once daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, wait at least 3 to 5 half-lives of clarithromycin before increasing the dose of talazoparib to the prior dose used before clarithromycin therapy. A talazoparib dose reduction is not necessary for patients with prostate cancer; monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. In clinical trials, coadministration with clarithromycin increased talazoparib exposure by 45%.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamsulosin: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of clarithromycin. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin, should be avoided.
Tasimelteon: (Major) Concurrent use of tasimelteon and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, should be avoided if possible. Because tasimelteon is partially metabolized via CYP3A4, a large increase in exposure of tasimelteon with the potential for adverse reactions is possible if these drugs are coadministered. During administration of tasimelteon and another potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, tasimelteon exposure increased by about 50%.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tazemetostat with clarithromycin due to the risk for increased tazemetostat exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease current tazemetostat daily dosage by 50% (e.g., decrease 800 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO twice daily; 600 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO for first dose and 200 mg PO for second dose; 400 mg PO twice daily to 200 mg PO twice daily). Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tazemetostat overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Telavancin: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with telavancin. Both telavancin and clarithromycin are associated with QT prolongation, while clarithromycin is also associated with an established risk for TdP.
Telisotuzumab vedotin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in telisotuzumab vedotin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase unconjugated MMAE exposure (cytotoxic component of telisotuzumab vedotin). MMAE is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the exposure of MMAE by 1.4-fold.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Temsirolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of clarithromycin before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and clarithromycin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc), while clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Tetracycline: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Tetracyclines: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) If clarithromycin and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of tezacaftor; ivacaftor when coadministered with clarithromycin; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet twice a week, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tezacaftor and ivacaftor exposure 4- and 15.6-fold, respectively.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Major) Clarithromycin can inhibit aminophylline clearance by inhibiting the cytochrome P450 CYP3A isoenzymes. The labeling for aminophylline products states that aminophylline clearance may be decreased by up to 35% when clarithromycin is prescribed concurrently; these interactions can be clinically important. These interactions are particularly significant when aminophylline serum concentrations are already in the high therapeutic range (i.e., > 15 mcg/ml). If clarithromycin is used with aminophylline therapy, patients should be monitored for elevated theophylline levels and/or theophylline toxicity. Of the macrolides, azithromycin may be an alternative since it does not inhibit cytochrome P450 enzymes; no dosage adjustment of theophylline (or aminophylline) is required when azithromycin is coadministered. (Major) Clarithromycin can inhibit theophylline clearance by inhibiting the cytochrome P450 CYP3A isoenzymes. The labeling for theophylline products states that theophylline clearance may be decreased by up to 35% when clarithromycin is prescribed concurrently; these interactions can be clinically important. These interactions are particularly significant when theophylline serum concentrations are already in the high therapeutic range (i.e., > 15 mcg/ml). If clarithromycin is used with aminophylline or theophylline therapy, patients should be monitored for elevated theophylline levels and/or theophylline toxicity. Of the macrolides, azithromycin may be an alternative since it does not inhibit cytochrome P450 enzymes; no dosage adjustment of theophylline (or aminophylline) is required when azithromycin is coadministered.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and oral hypoglycemic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. With certain hypoglycemic drugs such as the thiazolidinediones, inhibition of CYP3A enzyme by clarithromycin may be involved; however, CYP3A is not a major metabolism route for pioglitazone and rosiglitazone. Careful monitoring of glucose is recommended.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is considered contraindicated for use along with clarithromycin which, when combined with a thioridazine, may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of TdP, and/or cause orthostatic hypotension.
Thiotepa: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thiotepa and clarithromycin if possible; reduced metabolism to the active thiotepa metabolite may result in decreased thiotepa efficacy. Consider an alternative agent with no or minimal potential to inhibit CYP3A4. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients for signs of reduced thiotepa efficacy. In vitro, thiotepa is metabolized via CYP3A4 to the active metabolite, TEPA; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may reduce the oral absorption of thyroid hormones and thus reduce efficacy; monitor for altered clinical response to thyroid hormone therapy if concomitant use is necessary. Alternatively, an oral liquid levothyroxine dosage form may be considered. Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine tablets and capsules and other thyroid hormones. Gastric acidity may be less essential for the absorption of oral liquid dosage forms of levothyroxine; PPIs have been observed to have a minimal effect on the bioavailability of oral liquid levothyroxine.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ticagrelor with clarithromycin due to increased plasma concentrations of ticagrelor resulting in an increased risk of dyspnea, bleeding, and other treatment-related adverse reactions. Ticagrelor is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ticagrelor exposure by 7.32-fold.
Tipranavir: (Major) The coadministration of tipranavir and ritonavir with clarithromycin results in increased tipranavir and clarithromycin concentrations, and a decreased concentration of the 14-hydroxy-clarithromycin metabolite. In patients with normal renal function, coadministration of these drugs is acceptable with no dosage adjustments. For patients with a creatinine clearance 30-60 ml/min, the dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 50 percent; for patients with CrCl less than 30 ml/min, the dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 75 percent. (Moderate) Some manufacturers recommend avoiding the coadministration of hepatic cytochrome P-450 enzyme inducers and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Tipranavir markedly induces the hepatic cytochrome P-450 enzyme CYP2C19, an enzyme responsible for the metabolism of PPIs. However, since tipranavir is not given unless it is co-prescribed with ritonavir, a known marked enzyme inhibitor, a reduction in PPI metabolism may be unlikely to occur. A reduction in PPI concentrations may increase the risk of gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events such as GI bleeding. If tipranavir and PPIs must be used together, monitor the patient closely for signs and symptoms of GI bleeding or other signs and symptoms of reduced PPI efficacy.
Tirofiban: (Minor) Patients who receive omeprazole concomitantly with tirofiban may have a higher rate of tirofiban clearance than patients who do not receive omeprazole. The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Tisotumab Vedotin: (Moderate) Monitor for tisotumab vedotin-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary due to increased monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. MMAE, the active component of tisotumab vedotin, is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clinical drug interaction studies have not been conducted for tisotumab vedotin. However, coadministration of another antibody-drug conjugate that contains MMAE with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased unconjugated MMAE exposure by 34%.
Tocilizumab: (Minor) Concomitant use of tocilizumab and omeprazole may lead to a decrease in the efficacy of omeprazole. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by tocilizumab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates as compared to metabolism prior to treatment. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping tocilizumab. A 12 to 28% decrease in omeprazole exposure occurred 1 week after a single tocilizumab dose. In vitro, tocilizumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Omeprazole is a substrate of both CYP2C19 and CYP3A4.
Tofacitinib: (Major) A tofacitinib dosage reduction is required if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. For patients on immediate-release formulations of tofacitinib: reduce all doses from twice daily to once daily. For patients on extended-release formulations of tofacitinib: reduce 22 mg once daily to 11 mg once daily; reduce 11 mg once daily to immediate-release 5 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase tofacitinib exposure and the risk for tofacitinib-related adverse effects. Tofacitinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tofacitinib exposure by 2-fold.
Tolterodine: (Major) Reduce the dose of immediate-release tolterodine to 1 mg twice daily and extended-release tolterodine to 2 mg once daily and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if coadministered with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase tolterodine exposure. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. In CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the CYP3A4 pathway becomes important in tolterodine elimination. Because it is difficult to assess which patients will be poor CYP2D6 metabolizers, reduced doses of tolterodine are advised when administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolterodine AUC by 2.5-fold in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Tolvaptan: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; clarithromycin may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of increased toremifene exposure resulting in additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and loop diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Trabectedin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of trabectedin with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased trabectedin exposure. If short-term clarithromycin (less than 14 days) cannot be avoided, begin administration 1 week after the trabectedin infusion and discontinue it the day prior to the next trabectedin infusion. Trabectedin is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the systemic exposure of a single dose of trabectedin (0.58 mg/m2 IV) by 66% compared to a single dose of trabectedin (1.3 mg/m2) given alone.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and verapamil, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving verapamil therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely. Verapamil is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8). One case of a possible verapamil-clarithromycin interaction was reported, which was associated with hypotension.
traZODone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of trazodone with clarithromycin due to the potential for increased trazodone exposure and associated adverse effects including QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, consider a reduced dose of trazodone based on tolerability. Trazodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of trazodone alone.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased tretinoin exposure which may increase the risk for tretinoin-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor more frequently for adverse effects. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tretinoin exposure by 72%.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Clarithromycin may inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of triamcinolone, resulting in increased plasma triamcinolone concentrations and reduced serum cortisol concentrations. There have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with triamcinolone, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including, but not limited to, Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Consider the benefit-risk of concomitant use and monitor for systemic corticosteroid side effects. Consider using an alternative treatment to triamcinolone, such as a corticosteroid not metabolized by CYP3A4 (i.e., beclomethasone or prednisolone). In some patients, a corticosteroid dose adjustment may be needed. If corticosteroid therapy is to be discontinued, consider tapering the dose over a period of time to decrease the potential for withdrawal.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Triazolam: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Clarithromycin is considered a strong inhibitor of this isoenzyme. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as triazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with trifluoperazine. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP, while trifluoperazine (a phenothiazine) is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Trospium: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for omeprazole-related adverse effects during coadministration with tucatinib. Concurrent use may increase omeprazole exposure. Omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Major) Antibiotics which possess bacterial activity against salmonella typhi organisms may interfere with the immunological response to the live typhoid vaccine. Allow 24 hours or more to elapse between the administration of the last dose of the antibiotic and the live typhoid vaccine.
Ubrogepant: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and clarithromycin is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Ulipristal: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Upadacitinib: (Major) During concomitant use of upadacitinib and clarithromycin reduce the upadacitinib dosage to 15 mg once daily. During induction for ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease reduce the upadacitinib dosage to 30 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase upadacitinib exposure and risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased upadacitinib overall exposure 1.75-fold.
Valbenazine: (Major) The dose of valbenazine should be reduced to 40 mg once daily during co-administration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin. QT prolongation is not clinically significant at valbenazine concentrations expected with recommended dosing; however, valbenazine concentrations may be higher in patients taking a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and QT prolongation may become clinically significant.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Minor) Postmarketing reports of interactions with coadministration of clarithromycin and valproic acid have been noted. The clarithromycin manufacturer recommends caution if coadministered.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Vamorolone: (Major) Decrease the vamorolone dose to 4 mg/kg once daily (max: 200 mg) and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase vamorolone exposure and the risk for vamorolone-related adverse effects. Vamorolone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vamorolone overall exposure by 44%.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with clarithromycin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of clarithromycin; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg once per week. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg once per week. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor overall exposure by 6.4-, 4.5-, and 11.1-fold, respectively. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of tezacaftor; ivacaftor when coadministered with clarithromycin; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet twice a week, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tezacaftor and ivacaftor exposure 4- and 15.6-fold, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of clarithromycin; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg once per week. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg once per week. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor overall exposure by 6.4-, 4.5-, and 11.1-fold, respectively.
Vardenafil: (Major) Do not use vardenafil orally disintegrating tablets with clarithromycin due to increased vardenafil exposure; do not exceed a single dose of 2.5 mg per 24-hour period of vardenafil oral tablets. Vardenafil is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4/5; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Use of vardenafil with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the AUC of vardenafil by 10 to16-fold. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk for QT prolongation or vardenafil-related side effects. Clarithromycin has an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. Vardenafil may produce an increase in QTc interval at both therapeutic and supratherapeutic doses.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid vemurafenib in patients receiving medications known to prolong the QT interval such as clarithromycin. Vemurafenib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The ECG changes occurred within the first month of treatment. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Additionally, coadministration may result in increased vemurafenib exposure and an increased risk of adverse events, including QT prolongation. Vemurafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the exposure of vemurafenib by 40%.
Venetoclax: (Major) Coadministration of clarithromycin with venetoclax is contraindicated during the initiation and ramp-up phase in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL); consider an alternative medication or adjust the venetoclax dose with close monitoring for toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) in patients receiving a steady daily dose of venetoclax if concurrent use is necessary. In patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), reduce the venetoclax dose and monitor for toxicity during concurrent use. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of clarithromycin. Specific venetoclax dosage adjustments are as follows: CLL/SLL patients at steady daily dose: 100 mg/day. AML patients: 10 mg on day 1, 20 mg on day 2, 50 mg on day 3, then 100 mg/day starting on day 4. Venetoclax is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 (strong) and P-gp inhibitor Coadministration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the venetoclax AUC by 90% to 690% in drug interaction studies, while coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and verapamil, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving verapamil therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely. Verapamil is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8). One case of a possible verapamil-clarithromycin interaction was reported, which was associated with hypotension.
Vilazodone: (Major) Because CYP3A4 is the primary isoenzyme involved in the metabolism of vilazodone, the manufacturer of vilazodone recommends that the daily dose not exceed 20 mg/day during concurrent use of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin. The original vilazodone dose can be resumed when the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued.
vinBLAStine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinblastine-related adverse reactions, including myelosuppression, constipation, and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Vinblastine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Major) Increased concentrations of vincristine are likely. Consider if alternative antibiotic therapy is appropriate. Monitor for vincristine-related side effects, including neurotoxicity, if these drugs must be used together. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 and also inhibits P-gp. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Postmarketing reports of interactions, including serious toxicity, between clarithromycin or similar macrolides and vinca alkaloids have been noted.
vinCRIStine: (Major) Increased concentrations of vincristine are likely. Consider if alternative antibiotic therapy is appropriate. Monitor for vincristine-related side effects, including neurotoxicity, if these drugs must be used together. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 and also inhibits P-gp. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Postmarketing reports of interactions, including serious toxicity, between clarithromycin or similar macrolides and vinca alkaloids have been noted.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Consider if an alternative to clarithromycin is appropriate in patients who will undergo vinorelbine therapy. Monitor for vinorelbine-related side effects, including neurotoxicity and neutropenia, if these drugs must be used together. Increased concentrations of vinorelbine are likely. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 and also inhibits P-gp. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Reports of interactions, including serious toxicity, between clarithromycin and vinca alkaloids have been noted.
Voclosporin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of voclosporin and clarithromycin is contraindicated; concomitant use may increase the exposure of voclosporin and the risk of voclosporin-related adverse effects such as nephrotoxicity, hypertension, and QT prolongation. Additive QT prolongation may also occur. Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased voclosporin exposure by approximately 19-fold.
Vorapaxar: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and clarithromycin. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Voriconazole: (Major) Caution is advised when administering voriconazole with drugs that are known to prolong that QT interval and are metabolized by CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation; coadministration may increase this risk. Voriconazole has also been associated with rare cases of torsades de pointes, cardiac arrest, and sudden death. In addition, both drugs are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A4. Coadministration may result in increased plasma concentrations of both drugs, thereby further increasing the risk for adverse events. Azithromycin can be considered as an alternative macrolide antimicrobial if appropriate for the clinical circumstance, due to its lack of metabolism via CYP3A4. If these drugs are given together, closely monitor for prolongation of the QT interval and other adverse effects such as drowsiness, fatigue, dry mouth, nausea, or insomnia. Rigorous attempts to correct any electrolyte abnormalities (i.e., potassium, magnesium, calcium) should be made before initiating concurrent therapy. (Moderate) Reduce the omeprazole dose by one-half when initiating voriconazole therapy in patients who are currently receiving omeprazole at doses of 40 mg/day or greater. Levels of omeprazole may increase by up to 2-fold due to CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 inhibition by voriconazole.
Vorinostat: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin should be used cautiously with other medications which may prolong the QT interval including vorinostat.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with clarithromycin is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance. (Moderate) Monitor the INR in patients receiving warfarin with proton pump inhibitors. Increases in INR may lead to abnormal bleeding. Adjust the warfarin dose to maintain the target INR. (Moderate) The concomitant use of warfarin with many classes of antibiotics, including penicillins, may result in an increased INR thereby potentiating the risk for bleeding. Inhibition of vitamin K synthesis due to alterations in the intestinal flora may be a mechanism; however, concurrent infection is also a potential risk factor for elevated INR. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding. Additionally, increased monitoring of the INR, especially during initiation and upon discontinuation of the antibiotic, may be necessary.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Clarithromycin may decrease the bioavailability of zafirlukast. Be alert for decreased clinical response to zafirlukast when clarithromycin is added concurrently.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Zaleplon is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin, may decrease the clearance of zaleplon. Routine dosage adjustments of zaleplon are not required. Dosage adjustments should be made on an individual basis according to efficacy and tolerability.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Decrease the zanubrutinib dose to 80 mg PO twice daily during concomitant use of clarithromycin 250 mg twice daily; decrease the zanubrutinib dose to 80 mg PO once daily during concomitant use of clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily. Coadministration may result in increased zanubrutinib exposure and the risk for zanubrutinib-related adverse effects. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; clarithromycin acts as a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 250 mg twice daily and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 500 mg twice daily. Zanubrutinib overall exposure has been observed to increase 92% when administered with clarithromycin 250 mg twice daily.
Zavegepant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zavegepant and clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase zavegepant exposure and the risk for zavegepant-related adverse effects. Zavegepant is an OATP1B3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B3 inhibitor increased zavegepant overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Administer clarithromycin and zidovudine at least 2 hours apart. Simultaneous oral administration of clarithromycin immediate-release tablets and zidovudine may result in decreased steady-state zidovudine concentrations. The impact of coadministration of clarithromycin extended-release tablets or granules and zidovudine has not been evaluated.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%. (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and clarithromycin should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Consider decreasing the dose of zolpidem if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Zolpidem is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the AUC of zolpidem by 34% to 70%.
Zonisamide: (Minor) Zonisamide is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and clarithromycin is a substrate of P-gp. There is theoretical potential for zonisamide to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are P-gp substrates. Use caution when starting or stopping zonisamide or changing the zonisamide dosage in patients also receiving drugs which are P-gp substrates.
Zuranolone: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of the amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole combination pack. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information.

abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, nausea, pancreatitis, stomatitis, stool discoloration, tongue discoloration, tooth discoloration, vomiting, weight gain, xerostomia


In trials with the combination of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole, diarrhea was reported in 14% of patients and taste perversion/dysgeusia was noted in 10% of patients. Other gastrointestinal adverse events have been reported with the individual components and include abdominal pain (2% to 5.2%), nausea (3% to 4%), vomiting (3.2%), flatulence (2.7%), acid regurgitation/dyspepsia (1.9% to 2%), and constipation (1.5%). Other adverse events noted in postmarketing reports of the individual components include pancreatitis (some fatal), anorexia, irritable colon, stool discoloration, mucosal atrophy of the tongue, stomatitis, abdominal swelling, dry mouth (xerostomia), glossitis, tongue discoloration or black hairy tongue, weight gain, and gastritis. Tooth discoloration has been reported with both clarithromycin and amoxicillin and is usually reversible with brushing or dental cleaning. During treatment with omeprazole, gastric fundic gland polyps have been noted rarely. These are benign and appear to be reversible with treatment discontinuation. Gastroduodenal carcinoids have been reported in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome with long-term treatment with omeprazole but may be a manifestation of the underlying condition.


abnormal dreams, agitation, anxiety, aseptic meningitis, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, mania, nightmares, paresthesias, psychosis, seizures, tremor, vertigo


In trials with the combination of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole, 7% of treated patients reported headache. Dizziness (1.5%) has been reported with omeprazole use. Other CNS or psychiatric adverse events noted in postmarketing reports with the individual components include sleep disturbances, depression, agitation, aggression, hallucinations, confusion, insomnia, nervousness, apathy, somnolence (drowsiness), anxiety, abnormal dreams, tremor, paresthesias, vertigo, behavioral changes, convulsions (seizures), depersonalization, disorientation, manic behavior (mania), nightmares, psychosis, reversible hyperactivity, and aseptic meningitis. These events may resolve upon the discontinuation of the drug.


C. difficile-associated diarrhea, candidiasis, infection, pseudomembranous colitis, superinfection


Microbial overgrowth and superinfection can occur with antibiotic and proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use. C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) or pseudomembranous colitis has been reported for nearly all systemic antibacterial drugs, including amoxicillin and clarithromycin, which may range in severity from mild to life-threatening. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile. The use of gastric acid suppressive therapy, such as PPIs, may also increase the risk of enteric infection or superinfection by encouraging the growth of gut microflora. If pseudomembranous colitis is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibacterial therapy not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Institute appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, C. difficile-directed antibacterial therapy, and surgical evaluation as clinically appropriate. Careful medical history is necessary as pseudomembranous colitis has been reported to occur over 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents. Esophageal candidiasis has been reported with omeprazole during postmarketing.


arthralgia, asthenia, back pain, muscle cramps, myalgia, myasthenia, weakness


Musculoskeletal adverse events have been reported with the individual components of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole and include asthenia or general weakness (1.3%) and back pain (1.1%). Other adverse events noted in postmarketing reports with the individual components include muscle weakness (myasthenia), myalgia, muscle cramps, joint pain (arthralgia), and leg pain.


acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), alopecia, anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, hyperhidrosis, linear IgA bullous dermatosis, maculopapular rash, petechiae, photosensitivity, pruritus, purpura, rash, serum sickness, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, xerosis


Dermatologic and hypersensitivity adverse events that have been reported with the individual components of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole include rash, anaphylactoid reactions, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, urticaria, toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, photosensitivity, skin inflammation, pruritus, petechiae, purpura, alopecia, dry skin (xerosis), hyperhidrosis, serum sickness-like reactions, erythematous maculopapular rash, exfoliative dermatitis, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), hypersensitivity vasculitis, and linear IgA bullous dermatosis.


cough, epistaxis


Cough has been reported in 1.1% of patients receiving the omeprazole component of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole. Epistaxis and pharyngeal pain have also been noted in postmarketing reports.


angina, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), palpitations, peripheral edema, QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia, torsade de pointes, ventricular tachycardia


Cardiovascular adverse events noted in postmarketing reports with the individual components of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole include chest pain (unspecified), angina, sinus tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitations, elevated blood pressure, peripheral edema, QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, ventricular tachycardia, and torsade de pointes.


fatigue, fever, malaise


General adverse events noted in postmarketing reports with the individual components of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole include fever, pain, fatigue, and malaise.


gynecomastia


Gynecomastia has been noted in postmarketing reports with the omeprazole component of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole.


cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice


Hepatic adverse events noted in postmarketing reports with the individual components of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole include hepatic disease, hepatic failure (some fatal), hepatic necrosis (some fatal), hepatic encephalopathy, hepatocellular disease, cholestatic disease (cholestasis), mixed hepatitis, jaundice, and elevated hepatic enzymes including hyperbilirubinemia.


hypocalcemia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia


Laboratory adverse events noted in postmarketing reports with the individual components of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole include hypoglycemia, hypomagnesemia with or without hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia, and hyponatremia.


agranulocytosis, anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, pernicious anemia, thrombocytopenia, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), vitamin B12 deficiency


Hematologic adverse events noted in postmarketing reports with the individual components of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole include agranulocytosis (some fatal), hemolytic anemia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, leukocytosis, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), and elevated prothrombin time (1%). Generally, long-term (e.g., more than 3 years) treatment with acid-suppressing agents can lead to malabsorption of vitamin B12 (cyanocobalamin) and vitamin B12 deficiency. In a study of healthy volunteers, it was shown that omeprazole caused a significant reduction in cyanocobalamin absorption. Although clinical data for omeprazole is lacking, it may be prudent to monitor patients for signs of pernicious anemia. Neurological manifestations of pernicious anemia can occur in the absence of hematologic changes.


hearing loss, tinnitus


Tinnitus has been noted in postmarketing reports with the individual components of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole. There have also been isolated reports of hearing loss, which is usually reversible and mainly occurs in elderly women.


blurred vision, ocular irritation, optic atrophy, optic neuritis, xerophthalmia


Ocular adverse events have been noted in postmarketing reports with the omeprazole component of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole. These include optic atrophy, anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, optic neuritis, dry eye syndrome (xerophthalmia), ocular irritation, blurred vision, and double vision.


azotemia, crystalluria, dysmenorrhea, dysuria, glycosuria, hematuria, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, interstitial nephritis, leukorrhea, menorrhagia, nephrolithiasis, nephrotic syndrome, proteinuria, pyuria, renal failure, renal tubular necrosis, testicular pain, urethral pain, urinary retention, urinary urgency


Interstitial nephritis, a hypersensitivity reaction, with renal tubular necrosis and nephrotic syndrome has been reported with penicillins and with clarithromycin. Acute tubulo-interstitial nephritis (AIN or TIN) has been reported in patients taking proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including omeprazole. AIN is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction and may occur at any time during PPI therapy. Patients may present with varying signs and symptoms from symptomatic hypersensitivity reactions to non-specific symptoms of decreased renal function (e.g., malaise, nausea, anorexia). In reported case series, some patients were diagnosed on biopsy and in the absence of extra-renal manifestations (e.g., fever, rash or arthralgia). Discontinue amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole therapy if AIN occurs. Other renal and genitourinary (GU) adverse events that have been reported in less than 1% of patients with the individual drug components include abnormal menses, dysmenorrhea, dysuria, impotence (erectile dysfunction), kidney calculus (nephrolithiasis), kidney pain, leukorrhea, menorrhagia, menstrual disorder, penis disorder, polyuria, testis disorder, testicular pain, urethral pain, increased urinary frequency, urinary retention, microscopic pyuria, urinary tract infection, urinary urgency, impaired urination, increased serum creatinine, and elevated BUN/azotemia (4% with amoxicillin). Crystalluria, albuminuria (proteinuria), glycosuria, and hematuria have also been reported. Renal failure has also been reported postmarketing.


lupus-like symptoms


Cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and lupus-like symptoms have occurred in patients taking PPIs, including omeprazole. Both exacerbation and new onset of existing autoimmune disease have been reported, with the majority of PPI-induced lupus erythematosus cases being CLE. Subacute CLE (SCLE) is the most common form of CLE reported in patients treated with PPIs, occurring within weeks to years after continuous drug therapy in patients ranging from infants to the elderly. Histological findings were usually observed without organ involvement. SLE is less commonly reported; PI associated SLE is generally milder than non-drug induced SLE. The onset of SLE typically occurred within days to years after initiating treatment primarily in patients ranging from infants to the elderly. Most patients presented with rash; however, arthralgia and cytopenia were also reported. Do not administer PPIs for longer than medically indicated. If signs or symptoms consistent with CLE or SLE occur, discontinue amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole and refer the patient to the appropriate specialist for evaluation. Most patients improve with discontinuation of the PPI alone in 4 to 12 weeks; serological testing (ANA) may be positive and elevated serological test results may take longer to resolve than clinical manifestations.


drug-induced enterocolitis syndrome


Drug-induced enterocolitis syndrome (DIES) has been reported with amoxicillin use. Most cases occur in pediatric patients. DIES is a non-IgE mediated hypersensitivity reaction characterized by protracted vomiting occurring 1 to 4 hours after drug ingestion in the absence of skin or respiratory symptoms. DIES may be associated with pallor, lethargy, hypotension, shock, and diarrhea within 24 hours after ingesting amoxicillin as well as leukocytosis with neutrophilia. If DIES occurs, discontinue amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole and institute appropriate therapy.


laboratory test interference


High urine concentrations of amoxicillin may cause false-positive results when using glucose tests based on the Benedict's copper reduction reaction that determines the amount of reducing substances like glucose in the urine; use a test based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions when testing for glucose in the urine of individuals treated with amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole. After administration of amoxicillin to pregnant women, a transient decrease in plasma concentration of total conjugated estriol, estriol-glucuronide, conjugated estrone, and estradiol has been noted. Additionally, antimicrobials and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may cause laboratory test interference. Both antimicrobials and PPIs are known to suppress H. pylori; thus, ingestion of antimicrobials within 4 weeks or PPIs within 2 weeks of performing diagnostic tests for H. pylori may lead to false negative results. At a minimum, instruct the individual to avoid the use of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole for at least 4 weeks prior to the test.


infertility


Based on animal data, clarithromycin may cause male infertility. Administration of clarithromycin resulted in testicular atrophy in rats, dogs, and monkeys.


Description

Amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole is a 3-drug combination of a penicillin antibacterial, a macrolide antibacterial, and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or history of within the past 1 year) to eradicate H. pylori. Omeprazole and almost all antibacterial agents, including amoxicillin and clarithromycin, have been associated with pseudomembranous colitis or C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD), which may range in severity from mild to life-threatening.

Mechanism Of Action

Amoxicillin and clarithromycin have demonstrated in vitro activity against most susceptible strains of Helicobacter pylori. Significant in vitro activity against H. pylori has also been demonstrated for omeprazole, but the clinical significance of this finding has not been established. The use of combination therapy is necessary for successful eradication of H.pylori and to avoid the development of resistance. The acid-suppressive therapy of the proton pump inhibitor (PPI) omeprazole is also required concurrently for ulcer healing.
Amoxicillin: Beta-lactam antibiotics such as amoxicillin are mainly bactericidal. Like other penicillins, amoxicillin inhibits the third and final stage of bacterial cell wall synthesis by preferentially binding to specific penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) that are located inside the bacterial cell wall. Penicillin-binding proteins are responsible for several steps in the synthesis of the cell wall and are found in quantities of several hundred to several thousand molecules per bacterial cell. Penicillin-binding proteins vary among different bacterial species. Thus, the intrinsic activity of amoxicillin, as well as the other penicillins, against a particular organism depends on their ability to gain access to and bind with the necessary PBP. The aminopenicillins are able to penetrate gram-negative bacteria more readily than are the natural penicillins or penicillinase-resistant penicillins due to the presence of a free amino group within the structure. Like all beta-lactam antibiotics, the ability of amoxicillin to interfere with PBP-mediated cell wall synthesis ultimately leads to cell lysis. Lysis is mediated by bacterial cell wall autolytic enzymes (i.e., autolysins). The relationship between PBPs and autolysins is unclear, but it is possible that the beta-lactam antibiotic interferes with an autolysin inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: Clarithromycin binds to the 50S subunit of the 70S ribosome, thereby blocking RNA-mediated bacterial protein synthesis. Clarithromycin can be bacteriostatic or bactericidal in action, depending on the concentration as well as the particular organism and its inoculum. In addition, it appears that an alkaline pH facilitates bacterial cell penetration, since clarithromycin exists in an unionized state in this environment. H. pylori resistance can develop during clarithromycin therapy; therefore combination antimicrobial therapy is necessary. The major mechanisms of microbial resistance to macrolides are modification of the 23S rRNA in the 50S ribosomal subunit to alter binding or by active drug efflux.
Omeprazole: Omeprazole inhibits gastric acid secretion which is believed to enhance the effect of antimicrobial agents eradicating H. pylori. It is a substituted benzimidazole which suppresses gastric acid secretion by inhibiting the H+/K+ ATPase enzyme system of gastric parietal cells. A significant increase in gastric pH and decrease in basal acid output follow oral administration. In hypersecretory conditions, it has a marked effect on gastric acid secretion, both basal- and pentagastrin-stimulated. Omeprazole exerts an inhibitory effect on gastric acid for at least 24 hours. It does not antagonize H2 or cholinergic receptors.


Pharmacokinetics

The components of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole are administered orally. Studies have shown a low risk of clinically significant interactions with the coadministration of omeprazole and either and amoxicillin or clarithromycin. There is no information about the gastric mucosal concentrations of omeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin after the administration of these agents concomitantly. The systemic pharmacokinetic information below is based on the administration of each agent alone.
Amoxicillin: Amoxicillin is administered orally. Approximately 20% of the circulating drug is protein-bound. It is distributed into most tissues. Approximately 60% of an orally administered dose is excreted unchanged in the urine within 6 to 8 hours. In patients with normal renal function, the elimination half-life is 61.3 minutes.
Clarithromycin: Clarithromycin is administered orally. Protein binding is low, which may partially account for its extensive distribution relative to erythromycin. Excellent tissue penetration produces tissue concentrations that exceed serum concentrations. It is metabolized to 14-OH clarithromycin, and roughly 20% of a 250 mg dose is converted to this metabolite during first-pass metabolism. Clarithromycin is a substrate and inhibitor of the CYP3A4 enzyme system and of P-glycoprotein (Pgp), an energy-dependent drug efflux pump. The elimination half-life is 5 to 7 hours when administered as 500 mg every 8 to 12 hours. The nonlinearity of pharmacokinetics is slight when given at the recommended doses of 250 and 500 mg every 8 to 12 hours. Roughly 30% of the dose is excreted in the urine as clarithromycin after a 500 mg tablet every 12 hours. The renal clearance is relatively independent of the dose and approximates the glomerular filtration rate. 14-OH clarithromycin accounts for 10% to 15% of the dose in urine every 12 hours.
Omeprazole: Omeprazole is administered orally. It is not known if it crosses the placenta, but it is excreted into breast milk. It is 95% bound to plasma proteins. Extensive hepatic metabolism occurs, and the metabolites have minimal antisecretory activity. Plasma clearance averages 500 to 600 mL/min in normal subjects. The plasma half-life in healthy patients is 0.5 to 1 hour. Secretory activity returns to normal 3 to 5 days after discontinuation. Approximately 77% of a dose is excreted renally as at least 6 metabolites, and the remainder of the dose is excreted in the feces.
 
Affected Cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), CYP2C19, CYP2C9
Clarithromycin: This drug is an inhibitor of both CYP3A4 and P-gp. It is a substrate of CYP3A4. It is also potentially a substrate of P-gP, but data are in vitro only.  
Omeprazole: This PPI is metabolized by CYP2C19 (primary) and by CYP3A4 (secondary). It inhibits CYP2C19 in vitro and in vivo and CYP2C9 in vitro.   Omeprazole is a time-dependent inhibitor of CYP2C19 and can increase the systemic exposure of co-administered drugs that are CYP2C19 substrates, or decrease the exposure of prodrugs that are such substrates, such as clopidogrel. In addition, omeprazole increases intragastric pH and can alter the systemic exposure of certain drugs that exhibit pH-dependent solubility. In vitro, omeprazole induces CYP1A2.


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route


Amoxicillin: Amoxicillin is stable in the presence of gastric acid and may be given without regard to meals. Peak plasma concentrations 1-2 hours after administration range from 5.5 to 7.5 mcg/mL. Detectable serum concentrations are observed up 8 hours after an orally administered dose.
Clarithromycin: Bioavailability of 250 mg immediate-release tablets is roughly 50%. For a single 500-mg dose, food slightly delays absorption and increases the peak time from roughly 2 to 2.5 hours. Food also increases the peak plasma concentration by about 24% but does not affect the extent of absorption. Food does not affect the formation of the active metabolite, 14-OH clarithromycin, or its peak plasma concentration but does slightly increase the extent of metabolite formation; this is indicated by an 11% decrease in area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC). Therefore, the immediate-release tablets may be given without regard to food. Peak plasma concentrations are achieved in about 2 to 3 hours, and steady-state serum concentrations are attained within 3 days. Steady-state peak plasma concentrations were approximately 3 to 4 mcg/mL with a 500 mg dose every 8 to 12 hours.
Omeprazole: Delayed-release omeprazole capsules contain enteric-coated granules, so absorption beings only after the granules leave the stomach. At that point, absorption is rapid with peak plasma concentrations occurring within 0.5 to 3.5 hours. Due to a significant first-pass effect, bioavailability following oral doses of 20 to 40 mg of the delayed-release capsules is 30% to 40% but may approach 100% in patients with hepatic impairment. Upon repeated administration, the bioavailability increases slightly. The 20 mg capsules are not bioequivalent when administered with and without applesauce. A mean reduction in Cmax of 25% was noted when administered with applesauce; however, there was no significant change in AUC. The clinical significance of this is unknown.


Hepatic Impairment

It is recommended to avoid the use of Omeclamox-Pak in patients with hepatic impairment due to the fixed dosing of the product.
Amoxicillin: Amoxicillin pharmacokinetics are not altered by hepatic impairment.
Clarithromycin: In patients with hepatic impairment, concentrations of the metabolite, 14-OH clarithromycin, are lower.
Omeprazole: In patients with chronic hepatic disease, bioavailability increases to approximately 100%, reflecting decreased first-pass effect. Additionally, the half-life increases to nearly 3 hours in chronic hepatic impairment as compared to the mean half-life of 1 hour in normal subjects. Plasma clearance averages 70 mL/minute, compared to a value of 500 to 600 mL/minute in normal subjects.


Renal Impairment


Amoxicillin: Elimination half-life increases as renal function declines.
Clarithromycin: The pharmacokinetics of clarithromycin are altered in subjects with impaired renal function. In the presence of severe renal impairment with or without coexisting hepatic impairment, prolonging the dosing interval may be appropriate.
Omeprazole: In patients with chronic renal impairment, whose creatinine clearance (CrCl) ranged between 10 and 62 mL/minute/1.73 m2 the disposition of omeprazole was very similar to that in healthy volunteers, although there was a slight increase in bioavailability. Because urinary excretion is a primary route of excretion of omeprazole metabolites, their elimination slowed in proportion to the decreased CrCl.


Geriatric

The elimination rate of omeprazole was somewhat decreased and the bioavailability was increased in the elderly. Omeprazole was 76% bioavailable when a single 40-mg oral dose of buffered solution was administered to healthy elderly volunteers, versus 58% in young adults given the same dose. Nearly 70% of the dose was recovered in urine as metabolites and no unchanged drug was detected. Plasma clearance was 250 mL/minute (about half that of young volunteers) and the plasma half-life averaged 1 hour, about twice that of young healthy volunteers.

Ethnic Differences

In pharmacokinetic studies of single 20-mg doses, an approximately 4-fold increase in omeprazole exposure (AUC) was noted in Asian subjects compared with White subjects. The combination product is generally avoided in Asian patients due to the fixed dosing of the combination packaging.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Administer amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole doses before eating, once in the morning and evening.
Instruct patients to swallow the doses whole; do not cut, crush, or chew.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Amoxicillin 2000 mg/day PO; Clarithromycin 1 g/day PO; Omeprazole 40 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

Amoxicillin 2000 mg/day PO; Clarithromycin 1 g/day PO; Omeprazole 40 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.
 

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Omeclamox-Pak

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Avoid the use of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole therapy in patients with hepatic impairment, due to the fixed dosages contained in the product.

Renal Impairment

In the presence of severe renal impairment, prolonged dosing intervals for the clarithromycin component of amoxicillin; clarithromycin; omeprazole may be appropriate.

© 2026 Elsevier