=== Elafibranor (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5538)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Elafibranor is an oral peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonist indicated for the treatment of primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) in combination with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) in adults who have an inadequate response to UDCA, or as monotherapy in patients unable to tolerate UDCA.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 80 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): gastroesophageal reflux, weight gain, weight loss, elevated creatine kinase, muscle cramps, myalgia, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic decompensation, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Hypersensitivity reactions have occurred in patients receiving elafibranor.

Brand Names
  - Iqirvo

Dosage Forms
  - IQIRVO 80mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        80 mg PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of primary biliary cholangitis in combination with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) in adults who have an inadequate response to UDCA, or as monotherapy in patients unable to tolerate UDCA

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions have occurred in patients receiving elafibranor. Hypersensitivity has resolved after discontinuation and treatment with steroids and/or antihistamines. If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs, permanently discontinue elafibranor. If a mild or moderate hypersensitivity reaction occurs, interrupt therapy and treat promptly. Monitor the patient until signs and symptoms resolve. If a hypersensitivity reaction recurs after elafibranor rechallenge, then permanently discontinue treatment.
    Headline
    myopathy
    General Information
    Assess for myalgia and myopathy prior to initiation of therapy with elafibranor. Rhabdomyolysis, myopathy, or myalgia may occur with elafibranor therapy. Consider periodic assessment (clinical exam, CPK measurement) during treatment with elafibranor, especially in people who have worsening of pre-existing muscle pain or myopathy or new onset muscle pain or myopathy. Interrupt elafibranor treatment if there is new onset of worsening of muscle pain, myopathy, or rhabdomyolysis. Elafibranor may be restarted if an alternative etiology for these signs and symptoms has been identified and resolved. However, discontinue elafibranor if signs and symptoms recur.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, decompensated hepatic cirrhosis, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use of elafibranor is not recommended in people who have or develop decompensated hepatic cirrhosis (e.g., ascites, variceal bleeding, hepatic encephalopathy). Monitor individuals with hepatic cirrhosis for evidence of decompensation. Consider discontinuing elafibranor if the individual progresses to moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B or Child-Pugh class C, or hepatic failure), as safety and efficacy in these individuals have not been established. Interrupt elafibranor treatment if liver enzyme levels worsen or the individual develops signs and symptoms of hepatitis (jaundice, right upper quadrant pain, eosinophilia). Consider permanent discontinuation if liver tests worsen after restarting elafibranor. No dosage adjustment is needed in individuals with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A).
    Headline
    biliary obstruction
    General Information
    Avoid use of elafibranor therapy in individuals with complete biliary obstruction. Interrupt elafibranor therapy and treat as clinically indicated if biliary obstruction is suspected.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    No dosage adjustment for geriatric adults 65 years of age and older is necessary. However, those more than 75 years of age had higher exposures to elafibranor and the active metabolite in pharmacokinetic studies. Because of limited clinical experience with elafibranor in people older than 75 years old, closer monitoring of adverse events is recommended in this population.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Based on animal reproductive studies, elafibranor may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. There are insufficient data from human pregnancies exposed to elafibranor to allow an assessment of a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Treatment of pregnant rats with elafibranor during organogenesis through lactation resulted in stillbirths, reduced survival, decreased pup body weight, and/or blue/black discoloration of the caudal section of the body. Healthcare providers are encouraged to enroll pregnant individuals, or individuals may register themselves in the pregnancy safety study for elafibranor and should report drug exposure by contacting Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-844-990-0239 or www.iqirvopregnancyregistry.com.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during elafibranor treatment. Elafibranor can cause fetal harm if taken during pregnancy. Use pregnancy testing to verify that a female of reproductive potential is not pregnant prior to initiation of elafibranor. Individuals who may become pregnant should avoid hormonal contraceptives (containing ethinyl estradiol) and use alternative contraception, including progestin-only contraceptives containing levonorgestrel/norgestrel, intrauterine systems, or effective contraception (non-hormonal) or add a barrier method of contraception if using hormonal contraception during treatment and for 3 weeks after the last dose of elafibranor.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid breast-feeding during treatment with elafibranor and for 3 weeks after the last dose due to potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed infant. There are no data on the presence of elafibranor in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Based on animal reproductive studies, elafibranor may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. There are insufficient data from human pregnancies exposed to elafibranor to allow an assessment of a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Treatment of pregnant rats with elafibranor during organogenesis through lactation resulted in stillbirths, reduced survival, decreased pup body weight, and/or blue/black discoloration of the caudal section of the body. Healthcare providers are encouraged to enroll pregnant individuals, or individuals may register themselves in the pregnancy safety study for elafibranor and should report drug exposure by contacting Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-844-990-0239 or www.iqirvopregnancyregistry.com.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid breast-feeding during treatment with elafibranor and for 3 weeks after the last dose due to potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed infant. There are no data on the presence of elafibranor in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with elafibranor can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a weak CYP3A inducer like elafibranor with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of liver injury if concomitant use of elafibranor and pioglitazone is necessary. Both medications have been associated with this adverse effect and concomitant use may increase risk.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with elafibranor can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with elafibranor is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with elafibranor is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Bile acid sequestrants: (Moderate) Separate the administration of elafibranor and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous coadministration may reduce elafibranor absorption and reduce its efficacy.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with elafibranor can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with elafibranor can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely during coadministration of elafibranor; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may decrease carbamazepine concentrations. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and elafibranor. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with elafibranor can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of elafibranor and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous coadministration may reduce elafibranor absorption and reduce its efficacy.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clozapine effectiveness if coadministered with elafibranor. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. When elafibranor is discontinued, reduce the clozapine dose based on clinical response. Clozapine is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with elafibranor can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with elafibranor can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with elafibranor can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with elafibranor can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with elafibranor can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with elafibranor can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) Separate the administration of elafibranor and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous coadministration may reduce elafibranor absorption and reduce its efficacy.
Colestipol: (Moderate) Separate the administration of elafibranor and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous coadministration may reduce elafibranor absorption and reduce its efficacy.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine concentrations and adjust the dose of cyclosporine as appropriate if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease cyclosporine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Cyclosporine is extensively metabolized by CYP3A and has a narrow therapeutic index; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Doravirine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and elafibranor may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and elafibranor may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and elafibranor may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Drospirenone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Fenofibrate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of liver injury, myalgia, myopathy, and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of elafibranor and fenofibric acid is necessary. Both medications are associated with these adverse effects and concomitant use may increase risk.
Fenofibric Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of liver injury, myalgia, myopathy, and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of elafibranor and fenofibric acid is necessary. Both medications are associated with these adverse effects and concomitant use may increase risk.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of elafibranor is necessary. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like elafibranor with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fluvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Gemfibrozil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elafibranor and gemfibrozil due to the risk for increased elafibranor exposure which may increase the risk for elafibranor-related adverse effects. Elafibranor is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with elafibranor. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and elafibranor as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary as concurrent use may decrease mefloquine exposure and efficacy. Mefloquine is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease methadone exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with elafibranor. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of elafibranor is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and elafibranor may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with elafibranor. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with elafibranor as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of liver injury if concomitant use of elafibranor and pioglitazone is necessary. Both medications have been associated with this adverse effect and concomitant use may increase risk.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of liver injury if concomitant use of elafibranor and pioglitazone is necessary. Both medications have been associated with this adverse effect and concomitant use may increase risk.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of liver injury if concomitant use of elafibranor and pioglitazone is necessary. Both medications have been associated with this adverse effect and concomitant use may increase risk.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Pravastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Progestins: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced elafibranor efficacy during concomitant use of elafibranor and rifampin. Concomitant use may decrease elafibranor exposure.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with elafibranor. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of elafibranor. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on elafibranor, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an approximately 3-fold increase in sildenafil clearance with concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of elafibranor. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if elafibranor must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; a tacrolimus dose adjustment may be needed. Concurrent administration may decrease tacrolimus concentrations. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with elafibranor as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with elafibranor. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with elafibranor is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, gastroesophageal reflux, nausea, vomiting, weight gain, weight loss, xerostomia
    General Information
    Weight gain (23%), diarrhea (11%), abdominal pain (11%), nausea (11%), vomiting (11%), constipation (8%), gastroesophageal reflux (6%), xerostomia (5%), weight loss (5%), and gastroenteritis (less than 5%) were reported in adult subjects receiving elafibranor during clinical trials. Gastrointestinal symptoms were observed in 35 elafibranor-treated subjects (32%) compared to 6 in the placebo-treated subjects (11%). The severity of gastrointestinal events was mild in 43% of events and was moderate in 51% of events. The median time to onset was 13 (0.3 to 92) weeks for diarrhea, 4 (0.1 to 26) weeks for nausea, and 23 (4 to 55) weeks for vomiting. The median duration of events was 0.6 (0.3 to 86) weeks for diarrhea, 2 (0.1 to 89) weeks for nausea and 0.3 (0.1 to 51) weeks for vomiting without requiring discontinuation of elafibranor.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia
    General Information
    During clinical trials, arthralgia (8%) was reported in elafibranor-treated adult patients at incidences higher than with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rash
    General Information
    Rash (5%) was reported in adult patients receiving elafibranor during clinical trials. Hypersensitivity reactions (rash or unspecified allergic reactions) occurred in 0.2% of patients and occurred 2 to 30 days after elafibranor initiation, with positive dechallenges and rechallenges. Hypersensitivity reactions resolved after stopping elafibranor and treatment with steroids and/or antihistamines. If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs, permanently discontinue elafibranor. If a mild or moderate reaction occurs, interrupt elafibranor therapy and treat promptly. Monitor the patient until signs and symptoms resolve. If hypersensitivity reaction recurs after elafibranor rechallenge, then permanently discontinue the medication.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated creatine kinase, muscle cramps, myalgia, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    Myalgia or myopathy, with or without elevated creatine kinase (CK), occurred in subjects treated with elafibranor alone or receiving a stable dose of an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) in clinical trials. Muscle injury adverse reactions included muscle pain/muscle cramps (7%), increased CK (4%), myalgia (4%), and increased CK with myalgia (1%). One subject with cirrhosis on a stable statin dose developed rhabdomyolysis and acute kidney injury. The median time to myalgia onset was 85.5 days (interquartile range: 29, 291). Interrupt elafibranor treatment if there is new onset or worsening of muscle pain, myopathy, or rhabdomyolysis. Interrupt elafibranor treatment if there is new onset of worsening of muscle pain, myopathy, or rhabdomyolysis. Elafibranor may be restarted if an alternative etiology for these signs and symptoms has been identified and resolved. However, discontinue elafibranor if signs and symptoms recur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bone fractures
    General Information
    Bone fractures occurred in 6% (n=7) of elafibranor-treated patients compared to no placebo-treated patients. The median time to fracture after receiving elafibranor was 122 days (interquartile range: 48, 258).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bone fractures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, dizziness
    General Information
    Anemia, dizziness, and increased serum creatinine were reported in less than 5% of adult patients receiving elafibranor during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cholecystitis, cholelithiasis
    General Information
    New onset of cholelithiasis was reported in 3% of patients treated with elafibranor. The patients were also taking ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) concomitantly. An additional patient who had gallstones at baseline developed cholecystitis requiring cholecystectomy. Do not use elafibranor in patients with complete biliary obstruction. If biliary obstruction is suspected, interrupt elafibranor therapy and treat as clinically indicated.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cholecystitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      cholelithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic decompensation, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Drug induced liver injury (DILI) (hepatotoxicity) was reported in 3 patients receiving elafibranor during clinical trials. One patient took elafibranor 80mg once daily and 2 patients took 1.5 times the recommended dosage. One clinical presentation was drug induced autoimmune-like hepatitis. The median time to onset of elevated hepatic enzymes was 85 days (range: day 57 to 288). Elevated hepatic enzymes [ALT and AST of 5 or more times the upper limit of normal (ULN)] occurred in 6% of elafibranor treated patients. Hyperbilirubinemia (elevated total billirubin of 3 times the ULN) occurred in 2% of patients. Interrupt elafibranor if liver tests worsen or if the patient develops signs and symptoms of hepatitis. Consider permanent discontinuation if liver tests worsen after restarting elafibranor. Consider discontinuing elafibranor if hepatic decompensation to moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C) occurs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic decompensation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Elafibranor is an oral peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonist indicated for the treatment of primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) in combination with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) in adults who have an inadequate response to UDCA, or as monotherapy in patients unable to tolerate UDCA. Elafibranor received accelerated approval based on reduction of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) concentrations; an improvement in survival or prevention of liver decompensation events have not been demonstrated. Continued FDA approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trial(s). Elafibranor was initially FDA-approved in June 2024.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Elafibranor and its main active metabolite (GFT1007) are peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonists. The mechanism by which elafibranor exerts its therapeutic effect in patients with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is not completely understood. Both elafibranor and GFT1007 activate PPAR-alpha, PPAR-gamma, and PPAR-delta in vitro. Activation of PPAR-alpha was approximately 3 to 8-fold more than activation for PPAR-gamma and PPAR-delta. Potentially, elafibranor may decrease bile acid synthesis through the activation of PPAR-alpha and PPAR-delta pathways. PPAR-delta signal pathway is reported to include Fibroblast Growth Factor 21 (FGF21) dependent down regulation of CYP7A1, a key enzyme for the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol. Although in vitro pharmacology studies detected PPAR-gamma activation, toxicology studies in rats and monkeys show none of the adverse effects that are associated with PPAR-gamma activation.
 
Elafibranor treatment results in a reduction of alkaline phosphatase (ALP). In patients with PBC treated with 80 mg/day of elafibranor, a greater reduction in mean alkaline phosphatase (ALP) from baseline was observed as early as 4 weeks after treatment and lower ALP was generally maintained through week 52 than with placebo. Bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) concentrations are often used to monitor patients with PBC, even though the relationship of these markers to clinical outcomes, including mortality, has not been well-defined. During clinical trials, 15% of patients receiving elafibranor achieved normalization of ALP concentrations at week 52.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The steady-state of elafibranor was achieved by day 14 and the metabolite, GFT1007, was achieved by day 7 following once daily dosing of elafibranor. Tmax of elafibranor and GFT1007 was 1.25 hours (range: 0.5 to 2 hours). Mean Cmax, AUC, and AUC ratio between Day 15/Day1 for elafibranor and GFT1007 were 802 ng/mL and 2,058 ng/mL, 3,758 ng x hour/mL and 11,985 ng x hour/mL, and 2.9 and 1.3, respectively. When administered with a high-fat and high-calorie meal, the Tmax was delayed by 30 minutes for elafibranor and 1 hour for GFT1007. Under fed conditions, the Cmax of elafibranor also decreased by 50%, the AUC of elafibranor decreased by 15%, the mean Cmax of GFT1007 decreased by 30%, but the AUC of GFT1007 was not affected. The difference was not clinically meaningful.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of elafibranor or GFT1007 were observed in people with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B, and C) following a single dose of 120 mg elafibranor. The unbound fraction of elafibranor and GFT1007 was significantly increased by 2-fold and 2.6-fold, respectively, in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of elafibranor do not appear to be significantly altered by renal impairment. Following a single dose 120 mg of elafibranor, the systemic exposure of elafibranor was 32% lower and GFT1007 was not significantly different between subjects with normal renal function and those with severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2). The unbound fraction of elafibranor was 21% lower and GFT1007 was not significantly different between subjects with normal renal function and subjects with severe renal impairment.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Following a single dose of 120 mg of elafibranor, the mean AUC of elafibranor and the major active metabolite, GFT1007, was 23% and 52% higher in healthy geriatric subjects (75 to 80 years) compared to younger adults (26 to 42 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    There was no evidence that sex/gender has any clinical impact on the pharmacokinetics of elafibranor or the active metabolite, GFT1007.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    There was no evidence that body mass index (BMI) or body weight has any clinical impact on the pharmacokinetics of elafibranor or the active metabolite, GFT1007.
  Text
  Elafibranor is administered orally. The mean apparent Vd of elafibranor in healthy individuals following a single 80 mg dose under fasted conditions was 4,731 L. Elafibranor is extensively metabolized to form a major active metabolite, GFT1007. Both elafibranor and GFT1007, are approximately 99.7% protein bound, mainly to albumin. The AUC of GFT1007 is 3.2-fold higher than that of elafibranor at steady-state. Inactive metabolites include an acyl glucuronide conjugate, GFT3351, that consists of 4 stereoisomers. Elafibranor is metabolized by cytosolic enzyme, 15-ketoprostaglandin 13-delta reductase (PTGR1), to form GFT1007. Elafibranor was also metabolized by CYP2J2, and UGT isoforms, UGT1A3, UGT1A4, and UGT2B7. The active metbolite GFT1007 wGFT1007 is further metabolized by CYP2C8 (27.2%), UGT1A6 (39.7%), and UGT2B7 (14.1%). After a single 120 mg dose of elafibranor, 77% was recovered in the feces, primarily as elafibranor (57%) and GFT1007 (6%); approximately 19% was recovered in the urine primarily as GFT3351. Biliary excretion of elafibranor in humans was suggested by the excretion of 60% of orally administered elafibranor in the bile of rats. Elafibranor mean apparent total clearance was 50 L/hour. Following a single 80 mg dose under fasted conditions, the elimination half-life was 70.2 hours (range: 37.1 to 92.2 hours) for elafibranor, and 15.4 hours (range: 9.39 to 21.7 hours) for GFT1007.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2C8, UGT
Elafibranor is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and thus may produce drug interactions with selected CYP3A4 substrates. Elafibranor is a substrate of PTGR1, CYP2J2, and UGT enzymes (UGT1A3, UGT1A4, UGT2B7). Elafibranor is a substrate for multidrug resistance associated protein 2 (MRP2) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP); the clinical significance is unknown. Elafibranor inhibits bile salt export pump (BSEP) and BCRP, but the clinical significance is unknown. GFT1007 is a substrate of CYP2C8 and UGT enzymes (UGT1A6, UGT2B7). GFT1007 inhibits UGT1A6, but the clinical relevance of the inhibition is unknown. GFT3351 inhibits MRP2 and MRP3, but this inhibition is also of unknown clinical significance.
Elafibranor is not expected to inhibit UGT1A1, 1A4, 1A6, 1A9, 2B7, 2B10, and 2B15. Elafibranor, GFT1007, and GFT3351 did not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Elafibranor and GFT1007 did not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP3A4. GFT1007 is not expected to inhibit UGT1A1, 1A3, 1A4, 1A9, 2B7, 2B10, and 2B15. The CYP induction potential for GFT3351 was not assessed. Elafibranor did not inhibit P-gp/MDR1, organic anion transporting polypeptides OATP1B1 or OATP1B3, organic cation transporters OCT1 or OCT2, organic anion transporter 1 or 3 (OAT1 or OAT3), or multidrug and toxin extrusion proteins MATE1 or MATE2-K. GFT1007 did not inhibit OAT3, OATP1B3, BSEP, P-gp/MDR1, BCRP, OATP1B1, OCT1, OCT2, OAT1, MATE1 and MATE2-K. GFT3351 did not inhibit BCRP, P-gp, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT2, OAT3, OCT1, OCT2, MATE1, MATE2-K, and BSEP. GFT1007 is not a substrate for BCRP or MRP2. Neither elafibranor, nor GFT1007, is a substrate of P-gp, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT3, and OCT2.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      May administer elafibranor tablets with or without food.
Administer at least 4 hours before or 4 hours after administering any bile acid binding agents, or as great an interval as possible.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    80 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    80 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is recommended for mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A). Consider discontinuing elafibranor if an individual progresses to moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B or C). The use of elafibranor is not recommended in people who have or develop decompensated cirrhosis (ascites, variceal bleeding, hepatic encephalopathy). Monitor individuals with cirrhosis for evidence of decompensation.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed in people with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment.
