=== Ethosuximide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 234)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ethosuximide is an oral succinimide anticonvulsant indicated for the treatment of absence (petit mal) seizures.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1.5 g/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): gingival hyperplasia, weight loss, ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria, fatigue, headache, hiccups, irritability, lethargy, libido increase, nightmares, psychosis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, eosinophilia, hematuria, leukopenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, vaginal bleeding

In an Overdose: In situations of overdosage or excessive dosage, excessive sedation, coma, or respiratory depression could occur.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Ethosuximide is contraindicated in patients with a history of succinimide hypersensitivity because of possible cross-sensitivity and serious adverse reactions. Drug hypersensitivity can include adverse hematologic or hepatic reactions to the drug.

Brand Names
  - Zarontin
  - Zarontin Solution

Dosage Forms
  - Ethosuximide 250mg Oral capsule, liquid filled
  - Ethosuximide 250mg/5mL Oral solution
  - Ethosuximide Bulk powder
  - Zarontin 250mg Capsule
  - Zarontin 250mg/5mL Solution

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General Dosing Information
As with most antiepileptic drugs, withdraw ethosuximide gradually because of the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        250 mg PO twice daily, initially. May increase the dose by 250 mg/day every 4 to 7 days, until seizure control is achieved with minimal side effects. Adjust dose based on effectiveness and plasma concentrations. Usual Max: 1.5 g/day in divided doses.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        250 mg PO twice daily, initially. May increase the dose by 250 mg/day every 4 to 7 days, until seizure control is achieved with minimal side effects. Adjust dose based on effectiveness and plasma concentrations. Usual Dose: 20 mg/kg/day. Usual Max: 1.5 g/day in divided doses.
        Heading
        Children 3 to 5 years
        Dosage Description
        250 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose by 250 mg/day every 4 to 7 days, until seizure control is achieved with minimal side effects. Adjust dose based on effectiveness and plasma concentrations. Usual Dose: 20 mg/kg/day. Usual Max: 1.5 g/day in divided doses.
    Heading
    For the treatment of absence seizures

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Ethosuximide is contraindicated in patients with a history of succinimide hypersensitivity because of possible cross-sensitivity and serious adverse reactions. Drug hypersensitivity can include adverse hematologic or hepatic reactions to the drug.
 
In January 2008, the FDA alerted healthcare professionals of an increased risk of suicidal ideation and behavior in patients receiving anticonvulsants to treat epilepsy, psychiatric disorders, or other conditions (e.g., migraine, neuropathic pain). This alert followed an initial request by the FDA in March 2005 for manufacturers of marketed anticonvulsants to provide data from existing controlled clinical trials for analysis. Prior to this request, preliminary evidence had suggested a possible link between anticonvulsant use and suicidality. The primary analysis consisted of 199 placebo-controlled clinical studies with a total of 27,863 patients in drug treatment groups and 16,029 patients in placebo groups (>= 5 years of age). There were 4 completed suicides among patients in drug treatment groups versus none in the placebo groups. Patients receiving anticonvulsants had approximately twice the risk of suicidal behavior or ideation (0.43%) as patients receiving placebo (0.24%), corresponding to an estimated 2.1 per 1000 (95% CI: 0.7—4.2) more patients in the drug treatment groups who experienced suicidal behavior or ideation. The relative risk for suicidality was higher in patients with epilepsy compared to those with other conditions; however, the absolute risk differences were similar in trials for epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Age was not a determining factor. The increased risk of suicidal ideation and behavior was observed between 1 and 24 weeks after therapy initiation. However, a longer duration of therapy should not preclude the possibility of an association to the drug since most studies included in the analysis did not continue beyond 24 weeks. Data were analyzed from drugs with adequately designed clinical trials including carbamazepine, felbamate, gabapentin, lamotrigine, levetiracetam, oxcarbazepine, pregabalin, tiagabine, topiramate, valproate, and zonisamide. However, this is considered to be a class effect. All patients beginning treatment with anticonvulsants or currently receiving such treatment should be closely monitored for emerging or worsening depression or suicidal thoughts/behavior. Patients and caregivers should be informed of the increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors and should be advised to immediately report the emergence or worsening of depression, the emergence of suicidal thoughts or behavior, thoughts of self-harm, or other unusual changes in mood or behavior. Anticonvulsants should be prescribed in the smallest quantity consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose.
 
Ethosuximide, when used alone in mixed types of epilepsy, may increase the frequency of grand mal seizures in some patients. As with other anticonvulsants, it is important to proceed slowly when increasing or decreasing dosage, as well as when adding or eliminating other medications. Abrupt discontinuation of anticonvulsant medication may precipitate absence (petit mal) status.
 
Ethosuximide should be used with caution in patients with preexisting hepatic disease. Like many anticonvulsants, the drug has rarely been associated with increased LFTs and the onset of liver dysfunction (e.g., hepatitis or jaundice). LFT monitoring should be performed periodically. If serious hepatic adverse effects occur, drug discontinuation may need to be considered.
 
Ethosuximide should be used with caution in patients with intermittent porphyria because the drug could exacerbate this condition.
 
Ethosuximide should be used with extreme caution in patients with renal disease because potentially fatal nephrotic syndromes can occur. Patients may recover renal function upon discontinuation of the drug but may require additional therapy. Urinalysis should be performed regularly, especially in patients at risk.
 
Ethosuximide should be used with caution in patients with bone marrow suppression or any hematological disease. Blood dyscrasias, including some with fatal outcome, have been reported to be associated with the use of ethosuximide; therefore, periodic blood counts should be performed. Patients should promptly contact their prescriber if they develop signs and/or symptoms suggesting an infection (e.g., sore throat, fever). Consider discontinuation of the drug if severe bone marrow suppression occurs, including reactions like agranulocytosis or aplastic anemia.
 
Ethosuximide commonly causes dizziness, drowsiness, and fatigue. Patients should be advised to use caution when driving or operating machinery, or performing other tasks that require mental alertness until they are aware of whether ethosuximide adversely affects their mental and/or motor performance. Alcohol ingestion should be avoided since alcohol can enhance CNS depressant effects and also lower seizure thresholds.
 
Safety and efficacy in children < 3 years of age and infants have not been established.
 
Ethosuximide should be used with caution during pregnancy (FDA pregnancy risk category C). Safe use has not been established, and other anticonvulsants have been associated with adverse teratogenic effects. Data are more extensive with respect to phenytoin and phenobarbital, but these are also the most commonly prescribed anticonvulsants; less systematic or anecdotal reports suggest a possible similar association with the use of all anticonvulsants. Ethosuximide crosses the placenta. Reports of the use of ethosuximide with birth defects, however, cannot be regarded as adequate to prove a definite cause and effect relationship. Furthermore, other factors may contribute to birth defects in pregnant women receiving anticonvulsants such as generic factors or the epileptic condition. The great majority of mothers taking anticonvulsant drugs deliver normal infants. Anticonvulsant drugs should not be discontinued in patients in whom the drugs are administered to prevent major seizures because of the strong possibility of precipitating status epilepticus with attendant hypoxia and threat to life. In cases where the removal of medication does not pose a serious threat to the patient, discontinuation of the drug may be considered prior to and during pregnancy, although even minor seizures may pose some hazard to the developing embryo or fetus. The prescriber will wish to weigh these considerations in treating or counseling epileptic females of childbearing potential. Physicians are advised to recommend that pregnant patients receiving ethosuximide enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug (NAAED) Pregnancy Registry to provide information about the effects of in utero exposure to the drug. Patients must call 1-888-233-2334 to enroll in the registry.
 
Ethosuximide is excreted into breast milk, resulting in concentrations in milk that are similar to those in the maternal plasma. While the manufacturer recommends ethosuximide only be used during breast feeding when the benefits of therapy outweigh the potential risks to the nursing infant, no adverse events on nursing infants have been reported, and the American Academy of Pediatrics generally considers the use of ethosuximide compatible with breast-feeding.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Ethosuximide is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to succinimides.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Ethosuximide, when used alone in mixed types of epilepsy, may increase the frequency of grand mal seizures in some individuals.
    Headline
    mood disorder, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Monitor for worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, or any unusual changes in behavior in individuals with mood disorder or suicidal ideation; antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including ethosuximide, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in individuals taking these medications for any indication. Suicidal behavior and ideation may also occur after ethosuximide discontinuation. When considering AED use, balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behaviors with the risk of untreated illness. The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials in subjects with epilepsy than in clinical trials in subjects with psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior. If suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment, consider whether the emergence of these symptoms may be related to the illness being treated.
    Headline
    hepatic disease
    General Information
    Use ethosuximide with extreme caution in individuals with known hepatic disease. Periodic liver function studies are recommended for all individuals receiving ethosuximide. Ethosuximide is capable of producing morphological and functional changes in the animal liver. In humans, abnormal liver function studies have been reported.
    Headline
    renal disease
    General Information
    Use ethosuximide with extreme caution in individuals with known renal disease. Periodic urinalysis is recommended for all individuals receiving ethosuximide. Abnormal renal function studies have been reported.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Ethosuximide may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration; therefore, caution the individual accordingly.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    According to the Beers Criteria, anticonvulsants are considered potentially inappropriate medications in geriatric adults with a history of falls or fractures; avoid in at-risk individuals, except for treating seizure and mood disorders, since anticonvulsants can produce ataxia, impaired psychomotor function, syncope, and additional falls. If ethosuximide must be used, consider reducing the use of other CNS-active medications that increase the risk of falls and fractures and implement strategies to reduce fall risk.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Use ethosuximide with caution during pregnancy. Ethosuximide crosses the placenta. Although case reports describe birth defects with ethosuximide use, available data are insufficient to establish a definitive causal relationship. In many cases, patients were receiving combination antiepileptic drug (AED) therapy. In a study of 10 people with epilepsy, 2 major malformations (bilateral clefting and harelip) occurred in infants of those taking ethosuximide with either primidone or phenobarbital. In a patient receiving ethosuximide monotherapy, minor anomalies were observed in 2 siblings, including a mammalian line, over-extensible joints, broad thumbs, epicanthal folds, broad nasal bridge, dimples, and misshapen ears. The mean number of minor anomalies in ethosuximide-exposed infants was higher than in matched controls (6.2 vs 2.1) but comparable to infants exposed to other AEDs (5.1). In a pooled analysis of 5 prospective European studies (1,221 children with AED exposure during pregnancy), 1 major congenital abnormality was reported among 13 pregnancies exposed to ethosuximide monotherapy. Major congenital abnormalities occurred in 2 of 5 pregnancies exposed to ethosuximide plus phenobarbital and in 3 of 39 pregnancies exposed to ethosuximide plus valproic acid. AEDs should not be discontinued in patients requiring treatment for major seizures, given the risk of precipitating status epilepticus, with associated hypoxia and threat to life. If discontinuation does not pose a serious risk, withdrawal before or during pregnancy may be considered; however, even minor seizures may be harmful to the developing embryo or fetus. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to ethosuximide; information about the registry can be obtained at www.aedpregnancyregistry.org or by calling 1-888-233-2334.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use ethosuximide with caution during breast-feeding. Limited evidence indicates that ethosuximide is excreted into human milk at concentrations similar to plasma levels in the lactating individual. In a patient receiving ethosuximide and primidone, the milk-to-serum ethosuximide concentration ratio was 0.94 +/- 0.06 at 4 to 6 days postpartum. Based on an ethosuximide concentration of 64 mcg/mL in the lactating individual and an estimated milk intake of 200 to 600 mL/day in a 3.5 kg infant, the theoretical infant dose was calculated at 3.6 to 11 mg/kg/day, compared with a weight-adjusted dose of 15.6 mg/kg/day in the breast-feeding person. In a separate case, a patient receiving ethosuximide monotherapy and the breastfed infant were followed for 4.5 months postpartum. The milk-to-plasma concentration ratio was 1.03 on day 3, decreasing to a mean of 0.8 at approximately 10 days, 5 weeks, and 2 months postpartum. The infant developed normally with no adverse effects during the observation period. In a study of 5 patients receiving ethosuximide during pregnancy who breastfed after delivery, the mean milk-to-serum concentration ratio was 0.86 +/- 0.08 for samples taken between postpartum days 3 and 28. Among the breastfed infants, 2 experienced hyperexcitability, 1 experienced sedation for 5 weeks and no weight gain for 4 weeks, and 2 exhibited normal neonatal behavior. Of the 2 infants with hyperexcitability, 1 lactating individual was receiving ethosuximide monotherapy; the remaining 4 individuals were receiving combination antiepileptic therapy.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Use ethosuximide with caution during pregnancy. Ethosuximide crosses the placenta. Although case reports describe birth defects with ethosuximide use, available data are insufficient to establish a definitive causal relationship. In many cases, patients were receiving combination antiepileptic drug (AED) therapy. In a study of 10 people with epilepsy, 2 major malformations (bilateral clefting and harelip) occurred in infants of those taking ethosuximide with either primidone or phenobarbital. In a patient receiving ethosuximide monotherapy, minor anomalies were observed in 2 siblings, including a mammalian line, over-extensible joints, broad thumbs, epicanthal folds, broad nasal bridge, dimples, and misshapen ears. The mean number of minor anomalies in ethosuximide-exposed infants was higher than in matched controls (6.2 vs 2.1) but comparable to infants exposed to other AEDs (5.1). In a pooled analysis of 5 prospective European studies (1,221 children with AED exposure during pregnancy), 1 major congenital abnormality was reported among 13 pregnancies exposed to ethosuximide monotherapy. Major congenital abnormalities occurred in 2 of 5 pregnancies exposed to ethosuximide plus phenobarbital and in 3 of 39 pregnancies exposed to ethosuximide plus valproic acid. AEDs should not be discontinued in patients requiring treatment for major seizures, given the risk of precipitating status epilepticus, with associated hypoxia and threat to life. If discontinuation does not pose a serious risk, withdrawal before or during pregnancy may be considered; however, even minor seizures may be harmful to the developing embryo or fetus. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to ethosuximide; information about the registry can be obtained at www.aedpregnancyregistry.org or by calling 1-888-233-2334.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use ethosuximide with caution during breast-feeding. Limited evidence indicates that ethosuximide is excreted into human milk at concentrations similar to plasma levels in the lactating individual. In a patient receiving ethosuximide and primidone, the milk-to-serum ethosuximide concentration ratio was 0.94 +/- 0.06 at 4 to 6 days postpartum. Based on an ethosuximide concentration of 64 mcg/mL in the lactating individual and an estimated milk intake of 200 to 600 mL/day in a 3.5 kg infant, the theoretical infant dose was calculated at 3.6 to 11 mg/kg/day, compared with a weight-adjusted dose of 15.6 mg/kg/day in the breast-feeding person. In a separate case, a patient receiving ethosuximide monotherapy and the breastfed infant were followed for 4.5 months postpartum. The milk-to-plasma concentration ratio was 1.03 on day 3, decreasing to a mean of 0.8 at approximately 10 days, 5 weeks, and 2 months postpartum. The infant developed normally with no adverse effects during the observation period. In a study of 5 patients receiving ethosuximide during pregnancy who breastfed after delivery, the mean milk-to-serum concentration ratio was 0.86 +/- 0.08 for samples taken between postpartum days 3 and 28. Among the breastfed infants, 2 experienced hyperexcitability, 1 experienced sedation for 5 weeks and no weight gain for 4 weeks, and 2 exhibited normal neonatal behavior. Of the 2 infants with hyperexcitability, 1 lactating individual was receiving ethosuximide monotherapy; the remaining 4 individuals were receiving combination antiepileptic therapy.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with adagrasib is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including anticonvulsants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase drowsiness and CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. Monitor patients on anticonvulsants carefully when a TCA is used concurrently.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Amoxapine, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. The amphetamines may also delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. The amphetamines may also delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. The amphetamines may also delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Minor) Use caution if ethosuximide and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse effects for several days after multi-day aprepitant regimens. This interaction may or may not be clinically significant, since ethosuximide serum concentrations are not well correlated to drug efficacy or side effects. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of ethosuximide. Single dose oral aprepitant or IV fosaprepitant regimens do not have the same effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Atazanavir may inhibit the metabolism of ethosuximide and may necessitate up to a 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Atazanavir may inhibit the metabolism of ethosuximide and may necessitate up to a 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide. (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering ethosuximide with cobicistat. Coadministration may result in elevated ethosuximide plasma concentrations. Predictions regarding this interaction may be made based on the metabolic pathway of both drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of ethosuximide.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Benzphetamine: (Major) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use benzphetamine with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary. Additionally, the amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Blinatumomab: (Moderate) No drug interaction studies have been performed with blinatumomab. The drug may cause a transient release of cytokines leading to an inhibition of CYP450 enzymes. The interaction risk with CYP450 substrates is likely the highest during the first 9 days of the first cycle and the first 2 days of the second cycle. Monitor patients receiving concurrent CYP450 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic index (NTI) such as ethosuximide. The dose of the concomitant drug may need to be adjusted.
Brodalumab: (Moderate) If brodalumab is initiated or discontinued in a patient taking ethosuximide, monitor ethosuximide concentrations; ethosuximide dose adjustments may be needed. The formation of CYP450 enzymes may be altered by increased concentrations of cytokines during chronic inflammation. Thus, the formation of CYP450 enzymes could be normalized during brodalumab administration. In theory, clinically relevant drug interactions may occur with CYP450 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic index such as ethosuximide.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Carbamazepine induces hepatic microsomal enzymes. Increased hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide leads to a decrease in its plasma concentration and a reduction in its half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if additional anticonvulsant therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ceritinib is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase drowsiness and CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. Monitor patients on anticonvulsants carefully when a TCA is used concurrently.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering ethosuximide with ciprofloxacin due to an increased potential for ethosuximide-related adverse events. If ethosuximide dose adjustments are made, re-adjust the dose upon completion of ciprofloxacin treatment. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions about the interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathway of ethosuximide. Ethosuximide is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ciprofloxacin inhibits this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in elevated ethosuximide plasma concentrations.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of ethosuximide if used concomitantly with clofazimine. Concomitant use may increase the concentration of ethosuximide, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate that has a narrow therapeutic index; in vitro data suggest clofazimine inhibits CYP3A4.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase drowsiness and CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. Monitor patients on anticonvulsants carefully when a TCA is used concurrently.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering ethosuximide with cobicistat. Coadministration may result in elevated ethosuximide plasma concentrations. Predictions regarding this interaction may be made based on the metabolic pathway of both drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of ethosuximide.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) Colesevelam may decrease the bioavailability of succinimides if coadministered. To minimize potential for interactions, consider administering oral anticonvulsants at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after colesevelam.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Darunavir may inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of ethosuximide, and may necessitate up to a 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide. Closely monitor patients during concurrent therapy.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering ethosuximide with cobicistat. Coadministration may result in elevated ethosuximide plasma concentrations. Predictions regarding this interaction may be made based on the metabolic pathway of both drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of ethosuximide. (Moderate) Darunavir may inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of ethosuximide, and may necessitate up to a 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide. Closely monitor patients during concurrent therapy.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering ethosuximide with cobicistat. Coadministration may result in elevated ethosuximide plasma concentrations. Predictions regarding this interaction may be made based on the metabolic pathway of both drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of ethosuximide. (Moderate) Darunavir may inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of ethosuximide, and may necessitate up to a 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide. Closely monitor patients during concurrent therapy.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase drowsiness and CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. Monitor patients on anticonvulsants carefully when a TCA is used concurrently.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. The amphetamines may also delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Diltiazem is an inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Co-administration with diltiazem may lead to an increase in serum levels of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates including ethosuximide.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase drowsiness and CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. Monitor patients on anticonvulsants carefully when a TCA is used concurrently.
droNABinol: (Major) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with ethosuximide is necessary, and monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse effects. Dronabinol is highly bound to plasma proteins, and may displace and increase the free fraction of other concomitantly administered protein-bound drugs; caution is recommended with other drugs with a narrow therapeutic index.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Ethosuximide is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Dupilumab: (Moderate) Coadministration of dupilumab may result in altered exposure to ethosuximide. During chronic inflammation, increased levels of certain cytokines can alter the formation of CYP450 enzymes. Thus, the formation of CYP450 enzymes could be normalized during dupilumab administration. Clinically relevant drug interactions may occur with CYP450 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic index such as ethosuximide. Monitor ethosuximide concentrations if dupilumab is initiated or discontinued in a patient taking ethosuximide; ethosuximide dose adjustments may be needed.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Efavirenz induces CYP3A4 and may decrease serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as ethosuximide.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Efavirenz induces CYP3A4 and may decrease serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as ethosuximide.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Efavirenz induces CYP3A4 and may decrease serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as ethosuximide.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering ethosuximide with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated ethosuximide plasma concentrations. Ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering ethosuximide with cobicistat. Coadministration may result in elevated ethosuximide plasma concentrations. Predictions regarding this interaction may be made based on the metabolic pathway of both drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of ethosuximide.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering ethosuximide with cobicistat. Coadministration may result in elevated ethosuximide plasma concentrations. Predictions regarding this interaction may be made based on the metabolic pathway of both drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of ethosuximide.
Emapalumab: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ethosuximide and adjust the dose as needed during coadministration with emapalumab. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index. Emapalumab may normalize CYP450 activity, which may decrease the efficacy of drugs that are CYP450 substrates due to increased metabolism.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Fluconazole may inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of ethosuximide. This interaction may or may not be clinically significant, since ethosuximide serum concentrations are not well correlated to drug efficacy or side effects.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Fosamprenavir may inhibit the metabolism of ethosuximide and may necessitate up to a 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with haloperidol can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Moderate) Caution is warranted with the coadministration of hydroxychloroquine and antiepileptic drugs, such as ethosuximide. Hydroxychloroquine can lower the seizure threshold; therefore, the activity of antiepileptic drugs may be impaired with concomitant use.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with ethosuximide, a CYP3A substrate, as ethosuximide toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase drowsiness and CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. Monitor patients on anticonvulsants carefully when a TCA is used concurrently.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with ethosuximide may result in increased serum concentrations of ethosuximide. Ethosuximide is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if MAOIs and succinimides are coadministered. MAOIs can also cause a variable change in seizure patterns, so careful monitoring of the patient with epilepsy is required.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A substrate.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Itraconazole may inhibit the metabolism of ethosuximide and may necessitate up to a 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of ethosuximide may occur if given with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use lisdexamfetamine with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary. Additionally, amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide. The extent of absorption of ethosuximide is not known to be affected.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of ethosuximide. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Ritonavir decreases the hepatic CYP metabolism of ethosuximide, resulting in increased ethosuximide concentrations. If coadministration is warranted, do so with caution and careful monitoring of ethosuximide concentrations. A 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide may be needed.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with loxapine can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Concomitant use of ethosuximide and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is not recommended. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the systemic exposure of ethosuximide, a narrow therapeutic index drug. Ethosuxamide is a substrate of CYP3A, and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a potent CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Concomitant use of ethosuximide and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is not recommended. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the systemic exposure of ethosuximide, a narrow therapeutic index drug. Ethosuxamide is a substrate of CYP3A, and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a potent CYP3A inducer.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mefloquine and anticonvulsants may result in lower than expected anticonvulsant concentrations and loss of seizure control. Monitoring of the anticonvulsant serum concentration is recommended. Dosage adjustments may be required during and after therapy with mefloquine.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Metreleptin: (Moderate) Upon initiation or discontinuation of metreleptin in a patient receiving ethosuximide, drug concentration monitoring should be performed and the ethosuximide dosage adjusted as needed. Leptin is a cytokine and may have the potential to alter the formation of cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes. The effect of metreleptin on CYP450 enzymes may be clinically relevant for CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, such as ethosuximide.
Mitotane: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and ethosuximide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of ethosuximide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ethosuximide.
Molindone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with molindone can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if MAOIs and succinimides are coadministered. MAOIs can also cause a variable change in seizure patterns, so careful monitoring of the patient with epilepsy is required.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Nelfinavir may inhibit the metabolism of other substrates of cytochrome P450 3A4, such as ethosuximide. Closely monitor patients during concurrent therapy. A 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide may be needed.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Netupitant is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should be used with caution in patients receiving concomitant medications that are primarily metabolized through CYP3A4, such as ethosuximide. The plasma concentrations of ethosuximide can increase when co-administered with netupitant; the inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 can last for multiple days.
Nevirapine: (Minor) Monitor for reduced efficacy of ethosuximide and seizure control if coadministration with nevirapine is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease ethosuximide exposure. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Nicardipine is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Co-administration with nicardipine may lead to an increase in serum levels of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates, such as ethosuximide.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nilotinib, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, and ethosuximide, a CYP3A4 substrate, may result in increased ethosuximide levels. A ethosuximide dose reduction may be necessary if these drugs are used together.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Ritonavir decreases the hepatic CYP metabolism of ethosuximide, resulting in increased ethosuximide concentrations. If coadministration is warranted, do so with caution and careful monitoring of ethosuximide concentrations. A 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide may be needed.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase drowsiness and CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. Monitor patients on anticonvulsants carefully when a TCA is used concurrently.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Avoid use of oritavancin with drugs that have a narrow therapeutic window, such as ethosuximide. Ethosuximide is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of ethosuximide may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently. Monitor for lack of ethosuximide efficacy.
Palbociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with palbociclib is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and palbociclib is a weak time-dependent CYP3A4 inhibitor.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and ethosuximide, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of ethosuximide. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur. (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase drowsiness and CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. Monitor patients on anticonvulsants carefully when a TCA is used concurrently.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if MAOIs and succinimides are coadministered. MAOIs can also cause a variable change in seizure patterns, so careful monitoring of the patient with epilepsy is required.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Phenytoin induces hepatic microsomal enzymes. Increased hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide leads to a decrease in its plasma concentration and a reduction in its half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if additional anticonvulsant therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with pimozide can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole and ethosuximide should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for ethosuximide-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of ethosuximide. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated ethosuximide plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for ethosuximide-related adverse events.
Primidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase drowsiness and CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. Monitor patients on anticonvulsants carefully when a TCA is used concurrently.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Ranolazine inhibits CYP3A isoenzymes and may theoretically increase the plasma concentrations of ethosuximide.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with relacorilant is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Ritonavir decreases the hepatic CYP metabolism of ethosuximide, resulting in increased ethosuximide concentrations. If coadministration is warranted, do so with caution and careful monitoring of ethosuximide concentrations. A 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide may be needed.
Rufinamide: (Minor) Rufinamide is not metabolized through hepatic CYP isozymes; however, it is a weak inducer of CYP3A4. In theory, decreased exposure of drugs that are extensively metabolized by CYP3A4, such as ethosuximide, may occur during concurrent use with rufinamide.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Saquinavir may inhibit the metabolism of ethosuximide and may necessitate up to a 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide.
Sarilumab: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of ethosuximide, monitor drug concentrations, and adjust the dose of ethosuximide as appropriate if coadministration with sarilumab is necessary. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by sarilumab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates compared to metabolism prior to treatment. Therefore, CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, such as ethosuximide, may have fluctuations in drug levels and therapeutic effect when sarilumab therapy is started or discontinued. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping sarilumab. In vitro, sarilumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate and narrow therapeutic index drug.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Secukinumab: (Moderate) If secukinumab is initiated or discontinued in a patient taking ethosuximide, monitor ethosuximide concentrations; ethosuximide dose adjustments may be needed. The formation of CYP450 enzymes may be altered by increased concentrations of cytokines during chronic inflammation. Thus, the formation of CYP450 enzymes could be normalized during secukinumab administration. In theory, clinically relevant drug interactions may occur with CYP450 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic index such as ethosuximide. These interactions remain theoretical. Results from a drug-drug interaction study in subjects with moderate to severe psoriasis showed no clinically relevant interaction for drugs metabolized by CYP3A4.
Sevelamer: (Moderate) Although drug interaction studies have not been conducted, it may be prudent to separate the timing of administration of ethosuximide from sevelamer. According to the manufacturer of sevelamer, clinicians should consider separating the timing of administration of sevelamer and drugs where a reduction in the bioavailability of would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy. The duration of separation should be based on the absorption characteristics of the coadministered drug. Because ethosuximide has a narrow therapeutic index, consider monitoring clinical response and serum concentrations during concurrent use of sevelamer.
Siltuximab: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of ethosuximide, monitor drug concentrations, and adjust the dose of ethosuximide as appropriate if coadministration with siltuximab is necessary. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by siltuximab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates compared to metabolism prior to treatment. Therefore, CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, such as ethosuximide, may have fluctuations in drug levels and therapeutic effect when siltuximab therapy is started or discontinued. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping siltuximab. In vitro, siltuximab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate and narrow therapeutic index drug.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of ethosuximide when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of ethosuximide resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
Teduglutide: (Moderate) Teduglutide may increase absorption of ethosuximide because of it's pharmacodynamic effect of improving intestinal absorption. Careful monitoring and possible dose adjustment of ethosuximide is recommended.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with thiothixene can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Tipranavir may inhibit the metabolism of ethosuximide and may necessitate up to a 50% dose reduction of ethosuximide.
Tocilizumab: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of ethosuximide, monitor drug concentrations, and adjust the dose of ethosuximide as appropriate if coadministration with tocilizumab is necessary. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by tocilizumab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates compared to metabolism prior to treatment. Therefore, CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, such as ethosuximide, may have fluctuations in drug levels and therapeutic effect when tocilizumab therapy is started or discontinued. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping tocilizumab. In vitro, tocilizumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate and narrow therapeutic index drug.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Verapamil is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Co-administration with verapamil may lead to an increase in serum levels of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates including ethosuximide.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if MAOIs and succinimides are coadministered. MAOIs can also cause a variable change in seizure patterns, so careful monitoring of the patient with epilepsy is required.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase drowsiness and CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. Monitor patients on anticonvulsants carefully when a TCA is used concurrently.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with phenothiazines can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase drowsiness and CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. Monitor patients on anticonvulsants carefully when a TCA is used concurrently.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with tucatinib is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Valproate inhibits the metabolism of ethosuximide and may lead to elevated serum concentrations of ethosuximide. Additionally, concurrent administration of valproic acid, divalproex sodium and ethosuximide may result in lowered valproic acid serum concentrations. Patients receiving valproate and ethosuximide, especially along with other anticonvulsants, should be monitored for alterations in serum concentrations of both drugs due to complicated pharmacokinetic drug interactions.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as ethosuximide, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of ethosuximide when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Verapamil is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Co-administration with verapamil may lead to an increase in serum levels of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates including ethosuximide.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voriconazole is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Anticonvulsants are thought to carry an increased risk of suicidal ideation and behavior. An analysis by the FDA of previously gathered drug data showed that patients receiving anticonvulsants had approximately twice the risk of suicidal behavior or ideation (0.43%) as patients receiving placebo (0.24%). The relative risk for suicidality was higher in patients with epilepsy compared to those with other conditions. Age was not a determining factor. The increased risk of suicidal ideation and behavior occurred between 1 and 24 weeks after therapy initiation. However, a longer duration of therapy should not preclude the possibility of an association to the drug since most studies included in the analysis did not continue beyond 24 weeks. Increased depression with suicidal ideations has rarely been reported with ethosuximide use. In situations of overdosage or excessive dosage, excessive sedation, coma, or respiratory depression could occur. All patients beginning treatment with anticonvulsants or currently receiving such treatment should be closely monitored for emerging or worsening suicidal thoughts/behavior or depression. Patients and caregivers should be informed of the increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors and should be advised to immediately report the emergence or worsening of depression, the emergence of suicidal thoughts or behavior, thoughts of self-harm, or other unusual changes in mood or behavior.
 
Adverse GI effects are the most commonly reported side effects of ethosuximide and include anorexia, weight loss, abdominal pain, nausea/vomiting, vague epigastric distress (e.g., dyspepsia, hiccups), and diarrhea. Taking the drug with food or milk may minimize GI effects. There have also been reports of gingival hyperplasia and swelling of the tongue (rare). Elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported and occasional monitoring of LFTs is recommended during therapy. Serious hepatic dysfunction, may be an indication of drug hypersensitivity or other drug-induced reaction and may require drug discontinuation.
 
Adverse CNS effects of ethosuximide include drowsiness, headache, dizziness, euphoria, irritability, restlessness or hyperactivity, fatigue and ataxia. Caution should be exercised in undertaking tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the drug are known. Psychiatric events have included sleep abnormalities (e.g., insomnia), nightmares, impaired cognition, aggression, and emotional lability or agitation. Paranoia type psychosis and libido increase are rare reactions and more likely to occur in patients who have previously shown abnormal psychological reactions.
 
Dermatological side effects during ethosuximide therapy include erythematous skin rash (unspecified), pruritus and urticaria. More serious reactions, which may be accompanied by fever, lymphadenopathy, pharyngitis, and muscle pain, can develop such as erythema multiforme or Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Reactions may indicate hypersensitivity to the drug. Lupus-like symptoms and hirsutism have also occasionally been reported.
 
Side effects involving the special senses are not common, but myopia has been reported with the use of ethosuximide.
 
Adverse hematological reactions during ethosuximide therapy can include leukopenia, eosinophilia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia. Symptoms, including chills, fever, sore throat, unusual lethargy or weakness, shortness of breath, and unusual bleeding or ecchymosis, should all be investigated promptly in case they predispose a more serious condition. Patients presenting with symptoms should have complete blood counts taken, and the drug should be discontinued if blood dyscrasias occur. Vaginal bleeding and microscopic hematuria have occasionally been reported.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    There have been rare reports of an increased state of depression with overt suicidal intentions with ethosuximide. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) such as ethosuximide increase the risk of suicidal ideation and behavior. Monitor all patients taking ethosuximide closely for emerging or worsening depression or suicidal ideation. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior. If suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment, consider whether the emergence of these symptoms in any patient may be related to the underlying illness. A pooled analysis of 199 placebo-controlled trials including 11 different AEDs showed that patients (5 years of age and older) receiving AEDs had approximately twice the risk of suicidal behavior or ideation (0.43%) as patients receiving placebo (0.24%), with an adjusted relative risk of 1.8 (95% CI 1.2 to 2.7). Four completed suicides occurred in patients treated with AEDs compared to none among controls. The relative risk for suicidality was higher in patients with epilepsy compared to those with other conditions. Age was not a determining factor and risk was generally consistent among all AEDs examined. Suicidal ideation or behavior have occurred as early as 1 week after AED initiation and may occur at any time during treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, gingival hyperplasia, nausea, vomiting, weight loss
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse events occur frequently and include anorexia, vague gastric upset, nausea and vomiting, cramps, epigastric and abdominal pain, weight loss, and diarrhea. There have been reports of gingival hyperplasia and swelling of the tongue.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      gingival hyperplasia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria, fatigue, headache, hiccups, irritability, lethargy, libido increase, nightmares, psychosis
    General Information
    Neurologic and sensory adverse reactions reported during therapy with ethosuximide have included drowsiness, headache, dizziness, euphoria, hiccups, irritability, hyperactivity, lethargy, fatigue, and ataxia. Psychiatric or psychological aberrations associated with ethosuximide have included disturbances of sleep, nightmares, inability to concentrate, and aggressiveness. These effects may be noted particularly in patients who have previously exhibited psychological abnormalities. There have been rare reports of paranoid psychosis and libido increase.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nightmares
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hiccups
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    myopia
    General Information
    Myopia has been reported with the use of ethosuximide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myopia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, eosinophilia, hematuria, leukopenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, vaginal bleeding
    General Information
    Hemopoietic adverse events associated with the administration of ethosuximide have included leukopenia, agranulocytosis, pancytopenia, with or without bone marrow suppression, eosinophilia, and aplastic anemia. Blood dyscrasias, including some with fatal outcome, have been reported to be associated with the use of ethosuximide; therefore, monitor blood counts periodically. If signs and/or symptoms of infection (e.g., sore throat, fever) develop, consider obtaining blood counts. Drug-induced immune thrombocytopenia (DITP) has also been reported with ethosuximide. Onset of symptoms occurred 1 to 3 weeks after ethosuximide initiation, and in a single patient, symptom recurrence was reported within 1 day with a subsequent rechallenge with ethosuximide. Reported nadir platelet count was 2,000 and 3,000 mm3 among reported cases. If DITP is suspected, discontinue ethosuximide, monitor serial platelet counts, and treat as clinically appropriate. Avoid future ethosuximide use in patients with a history of ethosuximide-induced DITP. Vaginal bleeding and microscopic hematuria have also been reported with ethosuximide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      aplastic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      eosinophilia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pancytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), erythema, hirsutism, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria
    General Information
    Serious dermatologic adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), have been reported with ethosuximide treatment. SJS can be fatal. The onset of symptoms is usually within 28 days, but can occur later. Discontinue ethosuximide at the first sign of a rash, unless the rash is clearly not drug-related. If signs or symptoms suggest SJS, do not resume ethosuximide and consider alternative therapy. Other dermatologic adverse events reported with ethosuximide include urticaria, rash with pruritus and erythema, and hirsutism. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as multi-organ hypersensitivity, has also occurred with ethosuximide. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy and/or facial swelling, in association with other organ system involvement, such as hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis, sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. This disorder is variable in its expression, and other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity (e.g. fever, lymphadenopathy) may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, evaluate the patient immediately. Discontinue ethosuximide immediately if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hirsutism
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Ethosuximide is capable of producing morphological and functional changes in the animal liver. In humans, elevated hepatic enzymes and abnormal renal function studies have been reported. Monitor liver function studies and urinalysis periodically for all patients receiving ethosuximide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    lupus-like symptoms
    General Information
    Cases of lupus-like symptoms or systemic lupus erythematosus have been reported with the use of ethosuximide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lupus-like symptoms
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Ethosuximide is an oral succinimide anticonvulsant indicated for the treatment of absence (petit mal) seizures. Ethosuximide, when used alone in mixed types of epilepsy, may increase the frequency of grand mal seizures in some patients. Blood dyscrasias, including some with fatal outcome, have been associated with ethosuximide. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) such as ethosuximide increase the risk of suicidal ideation and behavior; closely monitor all patients receiving ethosuximide for emerging or worsening suicidal thoughts/behavior or depression.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ethosuximide is a succinimide anticonvulsant. Ethosuximide suppresses the paroxysmal 3 cycle/second spike and wave activity associated with lapses of consciousness which is common in absence (petit mal) seizures. The frequency of epileptiform attacks is reduced, apparently by depression of the motor cortex and elevation of the threshold of the central nervous system to convulsive stimuli.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration, ethosuximide is rapidly and completely absorbed; the syrup is absorbed at a faster rate. The bioavailability of ethosuximide is 95% to 100%. After a single ethosuximide 750 mg oral dose, peak plasma concentrations reached 15 mcg/mL at 3 to 5 hours and remained at this concentration for 24 hours. To reach ethosuximide steady-state plasma concentrations, 7 to 12 days are required.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Because ethosuximide is eliminated predominantly by metabolism, hepatic disease is expected to impair its elimination. However, the pharmacokinetics of ethosuximide have not been studied in subjects with liver failure.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The elimination half-life of ethosuximide ranged from 30 to 40 hours in neonates or children. Results from a study in pregnant women receiving ethosuximide in combination with other anticonvulsants indicated that the ethosuximide half-lives in 3 neonates were 32, 37, and 38 hours. These half-lives were calculated from 2 serum concentrations including a cord serum sample and a second sample taken within 2 days of birth and prior to ethosuximide exposure from breast-feeding.
  Text
  Ethosuximide is administered orally. Ethosuximide is not bound to plasma proteins and its concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, or tears are similar to those in plasma. Ethosuximide is distributed through body water, and Vd has been reported as 0.7 L/kg in either children or adults. Approximately 80% of ethosuximide undergoes hepatic metabolism, which is mediated primarily by cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, with a major contribution from CYP3A and, to a lesser extent, from CYP2E and CYP2C/B. About 20% of an administered dose of ethosuximide is excreted unchanged in the urine. The hydroxyethyl derivative, which is the major metabolite of ethosuximide, is inactive and excreted as glucuronide in the urine. The elimination half-life of ethosuximide is 30 to 60 hours in adults and 30 to 40 hours in neonates or children.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A
Ethosuximide is a CYP3A substrate.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    May be administered without regard to meals.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1.5 g/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1.5 g/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    1.5 g/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    3 to 11 years: 1.5 g/day PO.
1 to 2 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
