=== Antithymocyte Globulin — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2099)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Antithymocyte globulin (ATG) is a polyclonal antibody that is used for organ transplant rejection, transplant rejection prophylaxis, and moderate to severe aplastic anemia in individuals unsuitable for bone marrow transplantation.

Routes: intravenous; Common adult doses: 1.5 mg/kg/day IV for Thymoglobulin and 20 mg/kg/day IV for Atgam are FDA-approved maximum dosages; however, higher doses have been used off-label with maximum dosage dependent on indication.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agitation, anxiety, dizziness, dyskinesia, headache, insomnia, paresthesias, seizures, syncope, tremor, arthralgia, back pain, flank pain, lymphadenopathy, myalgia, serum sickness, anemia, eosinophilia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, candidiasis, hepatitis, infection, gi bleeding, gi perforation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified)

In an Overdose: Acne vulgaris (12%), overdose (6%), and peripheral edema (20%) were reported with rabbit ATG.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Thymoglobulin is contraindicated in individuals with previous leporine protein hypersensitivity (allergic reaction to rabbit proteins) or to any product excipients.

ANTITHYMOCYTE GLOBULIN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Atgam, Thymoglobulin

Indication Specific Dosing

NOTE: There is no known dosage conversion factor for switching between Thymoglobulin and Atgam.

For the treatment of acute kidney transplant rejection

Intravenous dosage (Atgam)
Adults


10 to 15 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for 14 days in conjunction with concomitant immunosuppression. Administration may continue every other day, up to a total of 21 doses. Clinical practice guidelines suggest a lymphocyte-depleting agent such as antithymocyte globulin for severe, steroid-refractory or recurrent acute rejection cases.


Children and Adolescents


10 to 15 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for 8 to 14 days has been used in pediatric patients based on limited data. In 1 study of anti-lymphocyte therapy for corticosteroid-resistant, biopsy-proven acute rejection, 4 pediatric patients aged 10 to 16 years received this regimen for rejection occurring 5 to 96 months after transplantation; 3 of 4 patients experienced reversal of acute rejection, and 1 patient had no further rejection episodes with stable renal function.  Clinical practice guidelines suggest a lymphocyte-depleting agent such as antithymocyte globulin for severe, steroid-refractory or recurrent acute rejection cases.


Intravenous dosage (Thymoglobulin)
Adults


1.5 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for 7 to 14 days in conjunction with concomitant immunosuppression. Clinical practice guidelines suggest a lymphocyte-depleting agent such as antithymocyte globulin for severe, steroid-refractory or recurrent acute rejection cases.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


1.5 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for 7 to 14 days in conjunction with concomitant immunosuppression. Clinical practice guidelines suggest a lymphocyte-depleting agent such as antithymocyte globulin for severe, steroid-refractory or recurrent acute rejection cases.


For kidney transplant rejection prophylaxis

Intravenous dosage (Thymoglobulin)
Adults


1.5 mg/kg/dose IV once daily, with the first dose initiated prior to reperfusion of the donor kidney. The usual duration of therapy is 4 to 7 days. Guidelines suggest induction therapy with a lymphocyte-depleting agent such as antithymocyte globulin as part of the initial immunosuppressive regimen for those at high immunologic risk. However, lymphocyte-depleting agents do not prolong graft survival and are associated with a higher incidence of serious adverse effects.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


1.5 mg/kg/dose IV once daily, with the first dose initiated prior to reperfusion of the donor kidney. The usual duration of therapy is 4 to 7 days. Guidelines suggest induction therapy with a lymphocyte-depleting agent such as antithymocyte globulin as part of the initial immunosuppressive regimen for those at high immunologic risk. However, lymphocyte-depleting agents do not prolong graft survival and are associated with a higher incidence of serious adverse effects.  


Intravenous dosage (Atgam)†
Adults


15 mg/kg/dose IV once daily, with the first dose initiated within 24 hours of transplantation; continue daily for 14 days, then administer every other day to complete a total of 21 doses over 28 days. In adult renal allograft recipients, doses of 10 to 30 mg/kg/day IV have been reported. Atgam is typically administered in combination with other immunosuppressive agents (e.g., azathioprine and corticosteroids). In 1 study evaluating dose optimization, renal transplant recipients were randomized to receive a fixed daily dose versus dosing adjusted to maintain a T-cell count less than 50 cells/microliter. The T-cell-guided group received a substantially lower mean daily dose, resulting in cost savings and reduced thrombocytopenia and leukopenia, with no significant difference in patient or graft survival at 6 months, 1 year, or 2 years. Guidelines recommend induction therapy with a lymphocyte-depleting agent such as antithymocyte globulin in individuals at high immunologic risk; however, these agents have not been shown to prolong graft survival and are associated with an increased risk of serious adverse effects.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


15 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for 14 days. In a retrospective study of 220 patients younger than 19 years, acute rejection occurred was higher with Atgam (50%; mean 12.5 doses) compared with Thymoglobulin 1.5 mg/kg/dose for 10 doses (33%). All patients received background immunosuppression. Patient and graft survival, delayed graft function, and chronic rejection rates over 3 years were similar between groups. Guidelines recommend induction therapy with a lymphocyte-depleting agent such as antithymocyte globulin in individuals at high immunologic risk; however, these agents have not been shown to prolong graft survival and are associated with an increased risk of serious adverse effects.


For the treatment of heart transplant rejection†

Intravenous dosage (Atgam)
Adults


10 mg/kg/day IV for 5 to 14 days along with corticosteroid, antihistamine, and antipyretic premedication.


Intravenous dosage (Thymoglobulin)
Adults


0.75 to 1.5 mg/kg/day IV for 5 to 14 days along with corticosteroid, antihistamine, and antipyretic premedication.


For heart transplant rejection prophylaxis†

Intravenous infusion dosage (Atgam)
Adults


In a prospective randomized study, OKT-3 was compared to horse-derived ATG, which was titrated between 2.5 to 15 mg/kg/day IV to achieve a daily CD2 lymphocyte count of approximately 100 cells/mm3. Following an initial ATG dose of 500 mg IV given prior to surgery, the average daily dose of ATG was 5.8 mg/kg/day. There was no difference in rejection rates, and adverse effects were more common with OKT-3. A retrospective review of prophylactic regimens in cardiac transplant patients reports the benefits to patients treated with ATG 10 mg/kg/day for 4 days followed by cyclosporine versus OKT-3 or Minnesota antilymphocyte globulin (ALG) based protocols. Induction with ATG may be beneficial for patients at high risk for acute rejection, but routine use of induction in all patients has not been shown to be superior to regimens without such therapy.


Intravenous infusion dosage (Thymoglobulin)
Adults


125 mg IV over 8 hours once daily for 3 days following surgery in combination with azathioprine, corticosteroids and cyclosporine. This regimen was successful in suppressing T-lymphocytes in patients and the median actuarial survival was 85% one year after transplant. Induction with ATG may be beneficial for patients at high risk for acute rejection, but routine use of induction in all patients has not been shown to be superior to regimens without such therapy.


For the treatment of aplastic anemia

Intravenous dosage (Atgam)
Adults


40 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for 4 days. May repeat course after 3 months or longer in individuals who are refractory to initial treatment or who have relapsing disease. The FDA-approved dosage is 10 to 20 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for 8 to 14 days, then every other day for up to a total of 21 doses. Prophylactic platelet transfusions may be needed to maintain platelets at clinically acceptable concentrations.


Children and Adolescents


40 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for 4 days. May repeat course after 6 months or longer in individuals who are refractory to initial treatment or who have relapsing disease. The FDA-approved dosage is 10 to 20 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for 8 to 14 days, then every other day for up to a total of 21 doses. Experience in pediatric patients with aplastic anemia is limited, and dosing has generally been comparable to that used in adults. Prophylactic platelet transfusions may be needed to maintain platelets at clinically acceptable concentrations. 


Intravenous dosage (Thymoglobulin†)
Adults


3.5 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for 5 days. Atgam is preferred over Thymoglobulin for initial treatment; however, Thymoglobulin can be used in individuals who are refractory to initial treatment or who have relapsing disease.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years


3.5 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for 5 days. Atgam is preferred over Thymoglobulin for initial treatment; however, Thymoglobulin can be used in individuals who are refractory to initial treatment or who have relapsing disease.


For stem cell transplant preparation† prior to allogeneic stem hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (SCT)

Intravenous infusion dosage (Atgam)
Adults, Adolescents and Children


90 mg/kg IV divided over 3 days (i.e., 30 mg/kg/day IV) in combination with cyclophosphamide followed by methotrexate and cyclosporine for graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis has shown to be well tolerated and effective. In 39 aplastic anemia patients treated with this regimen, the actuarial survival at 3 years was 92%. Acute graft-versus-host disease occurred in 15% and chronic graft-versus-host disease occurred in 34% of patients. Lower doses of ATG have been used (15 mg/kg/day IV for 4 days) in combination with cyclophosphamide with durable engraftment at 7 to 41 months of follow-up without significant graft-versus-host disease.


Intravenous infusion dosage (Thymoglobulin)
Adults


The dose of rabbit ATG has not been determined. Studies have used 2 to 5 mg/kg/day IV for 4 to 5 days prior to matched-unrelated or T-cell depleted BMT with good survival and a decreased incidence of graft-versus-host disease. In general, GVHD is suppressed with low-dose rabbit ATG 2 to 2.5 mg/kg/day IV.


Children


Pediatric experience supports the use of conditioning regimens with up to 5 mg/kg/day IV for 5 days prior to BMT in patients with at least one antigen mismatch.


For the treatment of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)†

Intravenous infusion dosage (Atgam)
Adults


Several small studies have been published reporting success in some patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. In one study, 25 patients were treated with ATG 40 mg/kg/day IV over 4 hours for 4 days in combination with prednisone. The overall survival at 38 months was 84% and 11 patients became independent of red cell transfusions. The median duration of response was 10 months with 64% of the responses maintained between 8 to 38 months. Responses were categorized as CR in 3, PR in 6, and a minimal response in 2. Most of the responders had refractory anemia.


Intravenous infusion dosage (Thymoglobulin)
Adults


Of 20 patients with either refractory anemia or with refractory anemia with excess blasts, 6 had at least a partial response; 3 of the 6 had a complete response after rabbit ATG and cyclosporine started on day 4 to achieve a target serum concentration of 200 ng/mL. Only 1 of 9 patients had a response to ATG 10 mg/kg/day IV for 4 days whereas 5 of 11 patients had a response to ATG 20 mg/kg/day IV for 3 days. All 3 of the patients with a complete response were young (43 to 58 years) and had normal karyotypes, and 2 patients maintained complete remission; one at 42 months and one at 58 months.


For the treatment of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)† and graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis†

Intravenous infusion dosage (Atgam)
Adults


In a trial comparing induction therapy with ATG then maintenance treatment of cyclosporine with or without methylprednisolone as prophylaxis of graft-versus-host disease, patients were treated with ATG 15 mg/kg/day IV on days 1, 3, and 5 and cyclosporine was started on day 3 following the second dose of ATG. The ATG and cyclosporine combination provided effective therapy for acute graft-versus-host disease with long-term survival in 66% of patients with fewer side effects than those patients treated with methylprednisolone as well. These results are superior to the use of ATG, cyclosporine, or methylprednisolone alone. ATG (15 mg/kg IV twice a day for 5 days) in combination with corticosteroids was not associated with a significant improvement in response rate as compared to monotherapy with corticosteroids or anti-T cell immunotoxin. ATG is a common treatment of graft-versus-host disease that has failed to respond to initial therapy. Studies have not shown a benefit of monotherapy with ATG versus corticosteroids in delaying the onset or decreasing the severity of graft-versus-host disease.


Intravenous infusion dosage (Thymoglobulin)
Adults


15 mg/kg given as 3.75 mg/kg IV on days -5, -4, -3, and -2 with cyclosporine and methotrexate before bone marrow transplantation from an unmatched donor led to significantly less grade 3 or 4 acute GVHD as compared with only receipt of cyclosporine and methotrexate. The incidence of acute GVHD among recipients of ATG 7.5 mg/kg did not differ significantly from patients who did not get ATG. Patients who got ATG 15 mg/kg had more fatal infections, but the transplant-related mortality and actuarial 1-year survival rates were similar as compared with patients who got no ATG. The impact of ATG on survival, transplant related mortality, and long-term risk of chronic GVHD and chronic lung dysfunction was determined from 75 patients who survived 100 days after transplantation. As compared with no ATG receipt, ATG recipients had significantly less chronic GVHD (60% versus 37%) and chronic lung disease (51% versus 19%). Further, actuarial 6-year survival was 31% and 44%, respectively.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Thymoglobulin is contraindicated in individuals with previous leporine protein hypersensitivity (allergic reaction to rabbit proteins) or to any product excipients. Atgam is contraindicated in individuals with a previous severe systemic reaction to the product or to any other equine gamma globulin preparation (equine protein hypersensitivity).

infection


Antithymocyte globulin (Thymoglobulin brand) is contraindicated in individuals with active acute or chronic infection that would preclude additional immunosuppression. Serious and potentially fatal infections, including cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation, have been reported; administer appropriate anti-infective prophylaxis when indicated. Antiviral prophylaxis is recommended for individuals who are CMV-seropositive at transplant and for CMV-seronegative individuals receiving a kidney from a CMV-seropositive donor.


serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis


Due to the presence of animal proteins, there is a risk of serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, including cytokine release syndrome (CRS), with antithymocyte globulin (ATG). A skin test is recommended prior to therapy with Atgam but not Thymoglobulin. The predictive value of this test has not been determined and severe hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have occurred after a negative skin test. Individuals should be monitored closely during ATG infusions and appropriate life-support equipment should be readily available. Monitor for signs of acute bronchospasm and hypotension, which may be signs of an anaphylactic reaction. Slowing the infusion rate may minimize infusion-associated reactions.


pregnancy


Administer antithymocyte globulin (ATG) during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ATG in pregnancy. It is not known if ATG can cause fetal harm. At a dose up to 20 mg/kg, equine ATG was not teratogenic in rats or monkeys; however, when given to cynomolgus monkeys during organogenesis at a dose of 20 mg/kg/day for 16 days, it was fetotoxic. No maternal or fetal toxicity was observed with equine ATG 10 mg/kg/day for 16 days during organogenesis.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with antithymocyte globulin (ATG). It is not known whether ATG can cause fetal harm. FDA-approved labeling for rabbit ATG recommends effective contraception during treatment and for at least 3 months after the last dose.


obesity


Atgam is generally dosed based on actual body weight. For individuals with obesity, guidelines recommend using the average of ideal body weight multiplied by 1.3 and actual body weight to determine dosing weight.


breast-feeding


It is not known if antithymocyte globulin (ATG) is excreted in human milk. Because other immunoglobulins and many drugs are excreted into human breast milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breast-fed child, discontinue breast-feeding or discontinue ATG, taking into consideration the importance of the drug to the lactating individual.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Administer antithymocyte globulin (ATG) during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ATG in pregnancy. It is not known if ATG can cause fetal harm. At a dose up to 20 mg/kg, equine ATG was not teratogenic in rats or monkeys; however, when given to cynomolgus monkeys during organogenesis at a dose of 20 mg/kg/day for 16 days, it was fetotoxic. No maternal or fetal toxicity was observed with equine ATG 10 mg/kg/day for 16 days during organogenesis.


Interactions

Abatacept: (Moderate) Concomitant use of immunosuppressives may potentially increase the risk of serious infection in abatacept treated patients. Advise patients taking abatacept to seek immediate medical advice if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of infection.
Adalimumab: (Moderate) The safety and efficacy of adalimumab in patients with immunosuppression have not been evaluated. Patients receiving immunosuppressives along with adalimumab may be at a greater risk of developing an infection. Many of the serious infections occurred in patients on immunosuppressive therapy that received adalimumab.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Belatacept: (Moderate) Coadministration at the same time or nearly the same time of belatacept and anti-thymocyte immune globulin in patients with other predisposing risk factors for venous thrombosis of the renal allograft may pose a risk for venous thrombosis of the renal allograft.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Because antithymocyte globulin is an immunosuppressant, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents. While therapy is designed to take advantage of this effect, patients may be predisposed to over-immunosuppression resulting in an increased risk of infection or other side effects. Some protocols recommend decreasing the dosage of the standard immunosuppressive agents during treatment with antithymocyte globulin. Carefully observe patients for new adverse effects if the dose of immunosuppressants is reduced, as adverse effects of antithymocyte globulin may have been masked.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Certolizumab pegol: (Moderate) The safety and efficacy of certolizumab in patients with immunosuppression have not been evaluated. Patients receiving immunosuppressives along with certolizumab may be at a greater risk of developing an infection. Many of the serious infections occurred in patients on immunosuppressive therapy who received certolizumab.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Golimumab: (Moderate) The safety and efficacy of golimumab in patients with immunosuppression have not been evaluated. Patients receiving immunosuppressives along with golimumab may be at a greater risk of developing an infection.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
inFLIXimab: (Moderate) Many serious infections during infliximab therapy have occurred in patients receiving concurrent immunosuppressives that, in addition to their underlying Crohn's disease or rheumatoid arthritis, predisposes patients to infections.
Interferon Gamma-1b: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the concomitant use of antithymocyte globulin and interferon gamma-1b as an additive risk of bleeding may occur. Interferon gamma-1b can cause severe, reversible neutropenia and thrombocytopenia that may be dose-related.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
penicillAMINE: (Major) Agents such as immunosuppressives have adverse reactions similar to those of penicillamine. Concomitant use of penicillamine with these agents is contraindicated because of the increased risk of developing severe hematologic and renal toxicity.
Platelet Inhibitors: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Rilonacept: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressives along with rilonacept may be at a greater risk of developing an infection.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Upadacitinib: (Major) Do not use upadacitinib in combination with potent immunosuppressants such as anti-thymocyte immune globulin. A risk of added immunosuppression exists when upadacitinib is coadministered with potent immunosuppressives. Combined use of multiple-dose upadacitinib with potent immunosuppressives has not been studied.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.


Adverse Reaction
agitation, anxiety, dizziness, dyskinesia, headache, insomnia, paresthesias, seizures, syncope, tremor


Headache is a common CNS adverse reaction to antithymocyte globulin (ATG), occurring in 5.3% to 35% of patients treated with equine ATG and 18% to 40% of patients treated with rabbit ATG during clinical trials. Headache was noted within 24 hours of infusion in 27% of equine or rabbit ATG-treated patients; headache occurring within 24 hours of infusion may be an infusion-associated reaction. Insomnia was reported in 12% to 20% of patients, with 5% to 12% of these patients experiencing insomnia within 24 hours of infusion. Anxiety was observed in 7% to 14% of patients, with 7% to 10% of patients being treated for acute kidney transplant rejection experiencing anxiety within 24 hours of infusion. Dizziness (1.1%), convulsion or seizures (0.8%), agitation (0.4%), encephalitis (0.2%), and paresthesias (0.2%) occurred during clinical trials of equine ATG. Dizziness and confusion occurred within 24 hours of infusion with rabbit ATG. Confusion, disorientation, dyskinesia, syncope, and tremor have been observed during postmarketing experience.


injection site reaction, phlebitis


An injection site reaction has occurred with antithymocyte globulin (ATG) administration. Among patients who received equine ATG during clinical trials, pain at the infusion site and peripheral thrombo-phlebitis were reported in 2.1% and 3.2% of patients, respectively. Infusion site erythema, pain, and swelling have been reported in postmarketing experience. Administration through a vascular shunt, arterial venous fistula, or a high-flow central vein is recommended for equine ATG. Use high-flow veins to minimize the occurrence of phlebitis and thrombosis.


arthralgia, back pain, flank pain, lymphadenopathy, myalgia, serum sickness


In clinical trials, arthralgia was reported in 15% of renal allograft patients treated with rabbit antithymocyte globulin (ATG) and in 14 % to 17.2% of patients treated with equine ATG. Myalgia was reported in 11% of renal allograft patients treated with rabbit ATG. Serum sickness was reported in 6 of 405 patients enrolled across trials of patients treated with rabbit ATG for prophylaxis of acute rejection, 2% of patients who received rabbit ATG for acute rejection, and 0.6% of patients enrolled in trials of equine ATG. Symptoms of serum sickness like arthralgia, myalgia, lymphadenopathy, protein in the urine, and decreased oxygen saturation tend to occur 5 to 15 days after ATG infusion; these symptoms are manageable with corticosteroid therapy. During trials of equine ATG, lymphadenopathy occurred in 1.3% of patients, and back pain occurred in 1.5% of patients. Other musculoskeletal adverse reactions to ATG observed during postmarketing experience include flank pain, muscle rigidity, myalgia, and extremity pain.


anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, diaphoresis, dyspnea, hypotension, laryngospasm, pruritus, rash, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, sinus tachycardia, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis may occur during antithymocyte globulin (ATG) therapy. Anaphylactic shock was observed in 2 of 405 patients who received rabbit ATG in clinical trials, and fatal cases of anaphylaxis have been reported. In clinical trials of equine ATG, 0.2% of patients experienced anaphylactoid reactions. Systemic hypersensitivity reactions with symptoms including dyspnea (1.1% to 28%), rash (unspecified) (13% to 25.6%), diaphoresis (6% to 13%), hypotension (2.9% to 16%), sinus tachycardia (1.1% to 23%), reduced oxygen supply to tissues, and laryngospasm (0.2%) were observed. Severe hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock are rare due to concomitant immunosuppression but may occur anytime during ATG therapy. During the infusion, continuously observe the patient for possible allergic reactions. If a severe reaction occurs, stop the infusion immediately and start appropriate supportive care measures. Patients who have had systemic reactions such as a generalized rash, sinus tachycardia, dyspnea, hypotension, or anaphylaxis to ATG should not be retreated. Other observed hypersensitivity reactions include pruritus (4.6% to 6%), urticaria (9.2%), and allergic dermatitis (0.2%). Toxic epidermal necrolysis occurred in 0.2% of patients during clinical trials of equine ATG.


hemolysis, hemolytic anemia


Hemolysis or hemolytic anemia has been reported during postmarketing experience with antithymocyte globulin (ATG).  


anemia, eosinophilia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia


Hematologic abnormalities are common with antithymocyte globulin (ATG). In a clinical trial comparing rabbit and equine ATG for treatment of acute kidney transplant rejection, leukopenia occurred more frequently with rabbit ATG (57% vs. 30%). In a rejection prophylaxis study comparing rabbit ATG with basiliximab, leukopenia was also more common with rabbit ATG (63% vs. 15%). Across clinical trials of equine ATG, leukopenia occurred in 17.9% of subjects and frequently developed within 24 hours of infusion (21% to 49%). Thrombocytopenia occurred in 16% to 37% of subjects receiving rabbit ATG and in 21.6% of those receiving equine ATG, with 9% to 29% experiencing thrombocytopenia within 24 hours of infusion. Anemia (12% to 25%) and leukocytosis (13%) were also reported in clinical trials. Postmarketing reports have included eosinophilia, granulocytopenia, febrile neutropenia, neutropenia, and pancytopenia. Monitor complete blood counts during and after ATG therapy; dose reduction or discontinuation may be required for clinically significant leukopenia or thrombocytopenia. Prophylactic platelet transfusions may be necessary in individuals treated for aplastic anemia to maintain clinically acceptable platelet counts.


candidiasis, hepatitis, infection


Infection has been reported in up to 76% of patients receiving antithymocyte globulin (ATG). Infections can be severe or fatal. Urinary tract infection was observed frequently during clinical trials of rabbit ATG (42%); urinary tract infections occurred in 29% of patients who received the active comparator, basiliximab. Urinary tract infections were reported as severe in 9% of ATG-treated patients and 2% of basiliximab-treated patients. Sepsis has been reported in about 6% to 12% of patients. CMV infections may be seen in about 6% to 13% of patients. To decrease the incidence of CMV viremia and disease, CMV-seropositive transplant patients may benefit from chemoprophylaxis for CMV infection. Other infections reported include herpes simplex infection (0.4% to 5%), lower respiratory tract infection (13%), upper respiratory tract infection (11%), nasopharyngitis (5%), herpes zoster infection (5%), oral candidiasis (6%), GI moniliasis (5%), gastritis (1%), viral hepatitis, febrile neutropenia, and localized infections. Patients receiving concurrent immunosuppressive therapy may be at increased risk for severe infections. Prophylactic antibiotics, antifungals, antiprotozoal, and/or antivirals may be warranted. All ATG is treated with red blood cells and plasma from human donors and carries the possibility of causing iatrogenic infection via bloodborne pathogens. The risk with ATG products is considered to be low due to the careful screening of plasma donors and manufacturing processes. However, a theoretical risk for infectious disease transmission may exist, and new bloodborne pathogens not controlled by present measures can theoretically emerge at any time.


new primary malignancy, post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder


Malignancies, including fatal cases, have been reported with antithymocyte globulin (ATG). Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) or new primary malignancy, including other lymphomas and solid tumors, may occur in individuals receiving immunosuppressive therapy such as ATG. In a clinical trial (n = 163) comparing rabbit and equine ATG for treatment of acute rejection, malignancies were reported in 3 subjects in each group during 1 year of follow-up, including 2 cases of PTLD per group. In trials of rabbit ATG for rejection prophylaxis in kidney transplant recipients, 6 subjects developed malignancies, including Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated lymphomas (cavum, large B-cell lung lymphoma, and brain), squamous cell carcinoma, renal cancer, and recurrent basal cell carcinoma.


antibody formation


Antibody formation and the formation of anti-HLA antibodies have been reported during therapy with antithymocyte globulin (ATG). These antibodies may play an important role in the mechanism of action of ATG as well as potential side effects. Anti-rabbit IgG or IgM antibodies have been detected in 68% of patients treated with rabbit ATG, and 78% of patients developed anti-equine antibodies after treatment with equine ATG. No controlled studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of anti-rabbit antibodies on repeat use of rabbit ATG. However, monitoring the lymphocyte count to ensure that T-cell depletion is achieved upon retreatment with rabbit ATG is recommended.


abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, GI bleeding, GI perforation, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting


Frequently reported GI adverse reactions of antithymocyte globulin (ATG) during clinical trials include abdominal pain (2.7% to 38%), diarrhea (2.9% to 20%), nausea (4.2% to 37%), vomiting (3.4% to 20%), constipation (15% to 33%), dyspepsia (10%), and anorexia (6%). Of note, clinical manifestations of infusion-associated reactions may include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mouth or throat pain, or abdominal pain or discomfort. Stomatitis occurred in 0.6% of patients during clinical trials of equine ATG. GI bleeding, GI perforation, and oral pain have been observed during postmarketing experience.


bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), heart failure, hypertension


Across clinical trials of antithymocyte globulin (ATG), hypertension was noted in 2.9% to 37% of patients, chest pain (unspecified) in 2.7% to 9%, and bradycardia in 1.5%. In some patients, hypertension and chest pain occurred within 24 hours after the infusion, indicating they could be infusion-related reactions. Infusion-related reactions may be manageable or reversible. Congestive heart failure was reported during postmarketing experience with ATG equine.


acne vulgaris, asthenia, edema, hiccups, hyperhidrosis, lethargy, malaise, night sweats, peripheral edema, restlessness


In a phase 3 trial comparing the equine and rabbit antithymocyte globulin (ATG) formulations for the treatment of acute kidney transplant rejection, patients treated with the rabbit ATG developed significantly more malaise (13% vs. 4%) than those treated with the equine product. A total of 9% of patients developed malaise within 24 hours of infusion with rabbit ATG. Reactions occurring within 24 hours of infusion may be infusion-associated; infusion-associated reactions are generally manageable or reversible. Asthenia occurred in 13% of patients during trials with rabbit ATG, and in 0.4% of patients treated with the equine product. Unspecified pain occurred in 26% of patients within 24 hours of infusion. Acne vulgaris (12%), overdose (6%), and peripheral edema (20%) were reported with rabbit ATG. Night sweats (0.8%), hiccups (0.4%), wound dehiscence (0.4%), iliac vein occlusion (0.2%), and periorbital edema (0.2%) were reported in trials of equine ATG. Lethargy, restlessness, and decreased sensitivity occurred within 24 hours of infusion during trials of rabbit ATG for rejection prophylaxis. Across clinical trials, edema occurred in 2.1% to 6% of patients. Hyperhidrosis and aplasia were observed during postmarketing experience.


hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hyperlipidemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia


Hyperkalemia is a common electrolyte abnormality seen with rabbit antithymocyte globulin (ATG). In clinical trials, hyperkalemia occurred in 27% to 57% of patients and within 24 hours after the infusion. Hypokalemia (6% to 12%), acidosis (6% to 9%), hyperphosphatemia (7%), and hypophosphatemia (6%), and hyperlipidemia (15%) also occurred. Hyperglycemia (0.6%) occurred in clinical trials of equine ATG.


apnea, cough, epistaxis, pleural effusion


Respiratory adverse reactions reported during clinical trials antithymocyte globulin (ATG) therapy include cough (7%), unspecified lung disorder (12%), and pleural effusion (0.8%). Apnea, cough, epistaxis, and oropharyngeal pain have been observed during postmarketing experience. Of note, cough, shortness of breath, apnea, and pulmonary edema may be symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions, or they may be infusion-related reactions.


coagulopathy, disseminated intravascular coagulation, thrombosis, thrombotic microangiopathy, vasculitis


Coagulopathy without clinical signs or symptoms of bleeding, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), and thrombotic microangiopathy have been reported during postmarketing use of antithymocyte globulin (ATG). Thrombotic microangiopathy has occurred in individuals receiving ATG for kidney transplantation, particularly when used with calcineurin inhibitors. Vascular adverse events reported postmarketing include deep vein thrombosis and vasculitis.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, proteinuria, renal failure (unspecified)


Elevated hepatic enzymes were observed in 1% of subjects receiving antithymocyte globulin (ATG) during clinical trials. Postmarketing reports have included hepatic dysfunction, including transient, reversible aminotransferase elevations without clinical signs or symptoms, hepatic failure, and hyperbilirubinemia. Renal adverse effects reported in clinical trials included abnormal serum creatinine, abnormal renal function (0.6%), renal artery thrombosis (0.2%), and proteinuria (0.4%). Postmarketing experience has also included reports of acute renal failure (unspecified), kidney enlargement, and kidney rupture.


chills, cytokine release syndrome, fever, infusion-related reactions, myocardial infarction, pulmonary edema, throat irritation


Infusion-related reactions, including severe cytokine release syndrome (CRS), have been reported with antithymocyte globulin (ATG); severe acute CRS may result in serious cardiorespiratory events and/or death. Other infusion-related reactions observed in clinical trials include abdominal pain or tenderness, anxiety, agitation, arthralgia, chest pain, chills, cough, confusion, dizziness, decreased sensitivity, diarrhea, dyspnea, fever, headache, hypotension, hypertension, lethargy, localized edema, malaise, mouth or throat pain, myocardial infarction, nausea, pulmonary edema (0.2%), pruritus, rash, restlessness, sinus tachycardia, and throat irritation. Fever and chills are among the most common reactions, occurring in 13% to 46% and 9% to 57% of subjects, respectively, and frequently developing within 24 hours of infusion. Adherence to recommended dosing and infusion times may reduce the incidence and severity of reactions; decreasing the infusion rate may also minimize risk. If an infusion-related reaction occurs, discontinue the infusion immediately and provide supportive care according to clinical practice.


laboratory test interference


Antithymocyte globulin (ATG) may cause laboratory test interference. Antithymocyte globulin (ATG) does not interfere with laboratory tests that do not use immunoglobulins. However, ATG may interfere with rabbit antibody-based immunoassays and with crossmatch or panel-reactive antibody cytotoxic assays.


Description

Antithymocyte globulin (ATG) is a polyclonal antibody that is used for organ transplant rejection, transplant rejection prophylaxis, and moderate to severe aplastic anemia in individuals unsuitable for bone marrow transplantation. Two formulations of ATG are available, derived from either horses (Atgam) or rabbits (Thymoglobulin). Rabbit ATG has demonstrated a significantly higher rejection reversal rate and a decreased incidence of recurrent rejection in kidney transplant patients compared to equine ATG, but the 2 products were not significantly different with regard to graft survival. When used for rejection prophylaxis, rabbit ATG is associated with a lower incidence of treatment failure (biopsy-proven acute rejection, graft loss, death) in kidney transplant recipients compared to basiliximab. In the management of moderate to severe aplastic anemia, equine ATG alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents may induce partial or complete hematologic response in 42% to 51% of patients. Due to the presence of animal proteins, there is a risk of serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis or cytokine release syndrome (CRS), with ATG. Antithymocyte globulin was FDA-approved in 1981.

Mechanism Of Action

Antithymocyte globulin (ATG) is a potent immunosuppressant. Although T-lymphocyte depletion is the primary means, the full mechanism by which ATG suppresses immune responses is not completely understood. ATG induces lymphocyte depletion in the periphery by complement-dependent cell lysis. Lymphocyte depletion may also result from antibody-mediated cytotoxicity and activation-induced apoptosis. T-cells are also depleted in secondary lymphoid tissues. Dose dependent depletion of CD2, CD3, CD4, CD8, CD20, and CD56 lymphocyte subsets has occurred. T-cell depletion is usually observed within a day following initiation. At certain concentrations, ATG may activate T-cells resulting in the synthesis of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-2, interferon-gamma, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. There appears to be a balance between the activating, co-activating, and inhibitory antibody specificities in ATG. Apoptosis in B-cell lineages, interference with dendritic cell function, and induction of regulatory T and natural killer cells has been observed. Additionally, equine ATG directly stimulates the growth of hematopoietic stem cells and the release of hematopoietic growth factors such as interleukin-3 and granulocyte/macrophage colony stimulating factor.

Pharmacokinetics

Antithymocyte globulin (ATG) is administered intravenously. Following administration, there is a short distribution phase that lasts approximately 8 hours. Reported mean elimination half-lives for rabbit immunoglobulin (IgG) are 2 to 3 days after first dose and 35.5 days after a 10-day course. The elimination half-life for equine IgG is 5.7 +/- 3 days (range 1.5 to 13 days) in renal transplant patients. Pharmacokinetic activity of the subset of IgG with relevant antilymphocyte activity within the antithymocyte globulin dose may exhibit different pharmacokinetic properties, perhaps partially arising from rapid elimination associated with antigen binding. Reductions in lymphocyte count begin within 24 hours after administration of rabbit antithymocyte globulin and absolute lymphocyte reductions have been demonstrated to persist for up to 1-year in renal transplant patients.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

During treatment of acute renal allograft rejection, peak plasma concentrations of rabbit IgG of 87 mcg/mL (23 to 170 mcg/mL) after the last dose have been reported. Following doses of 10 to 15 mg/day, mean peak plasma equine IgG concentrations were 727 +/- 310 mcg/mL and weakly correlated to the total ATG dose.

Ethnic Differences

Equine IgG pharmacokinetics were evaluated in a study of Japanese adult patients with moderate or severe aplastic anemia. When administered via intravenous infusion at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day (n=3) or 20 mg/kg/day (n=3) for 8 days, the mean concentration was 1,180 + 240 mcg/mL and 2,060 + 340 mcg/mL 1 hour after completion of the infusion on Day 8, respectively. The elimination half-life after the last dose varied from 1.3 to 6 days in these patients.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
Skin Test (Atgam)
Skin testing is recommended to identify patients at greatest risk for anaphylaxis.
A conservative, conventional approach is to use an epicutaneous (prick) test with undiluted Atgam. If the subject does not show a wheal 10 minutes after pricking, proceed to intradermal testing.
Use an intradermal injection of 0.02 mL of a 1:1,000 dilution of Atgam in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. A control of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection should be placed as well.
Read the result at 10 minutes. A wheal at the Atgam site of 3 mm or more in diameter than that at the saline control site (or a positive prick test) suggests clinical sensitivity and an increased possibility of a systemic allergic reaction with intravenous administration. If the test is positive, consider alternative treatments. A risk to benefit ratio should be considered. If ATG is deemed appropriate to administer to a patient with a locally positive skin test, the presence of a physician who is familiar with the treatment of potentially life threatening allergic reactions is advised. Also, administer in a setting where intensive life support facilities are immediately available.
Desensitization protocol: A 4 year-old, with an immediate 14 mm wheal and flare acute hypersensitivity reaction without wheezing or difficulty breathing after the skin test, successfully received 40 mg/kg/day IV of equine ATG for 4 days by gradual dose escalation. After treatment with diphenhydramine 1 mg/kg IV and methylprednisolone sodium succinate 2 mg/kg IV, he received equine ATG 0.1 mcg, 1 mcg, 10 mcg, and 100 mcg IV at 15 minute intervals; vital signs were checked before the first dose and every 5 minutes. An infusion of equine ATG 0.16 mg/minute IV over 10 minutes was administered; vital signs were continuously monitored. Over the next 4 days, he received 40 mg/kg IV equine ATG at a concentration of 1 mg/mL plus methylprednisolone sodium succinate 55 mg. Thirty minutes before each full dose, he was given acetaminophen 15 mg/kg and diphenhydramine 1 mg/kg. Infusion rate reduction from 69 mL/hour and diphenhydramine and acetaminophen administration resolved hypersensitivity reactions of shivering, wheals, and hives that occurred on days 1 and 2. The methylprednisolone dose was tapered over 2 weeks.


Injectable Administration


Only administer under the supervision of a physician experienced with immunosuppressive therapy. Patients receiving antithymocyte globulin (ATG) should be treated in facilities equipped and staffed with adequate medical and life-support equipment.
Do not shake diluted or undiluted ATG because excessive foaming and/or denaturing of the protein may occur.
Visually inspect the dilution for particulate matter and discoloration before administration. Atgam can be transparent to slightly opalescent, colorless to faintly pink or brown, and may develop a slight granular or flaky deposit during storage.


Intravenous Administration

Dilution (Atgam)
Dilute Atgam in an inverted glass bottle of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose and 0.225% Sodium Chloride Injection, or 5% Dextrose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, so the undiluted solution does not contact the air inside. Add the total daily dose to the sterile vehicle. Gently rotate or swirl to mix; do not shake. The final concentration should not exceed 4 mg/mL.
It is not recommended to use dextrose solutions to dilute Atgam, as the low salt concentration can cause precipitation.
Store diluted solutions at room temperature. The diluted solution must be infused within 24 hours including infusion time.
 
Intravenous infusion (Atgam)
Allow the infusion to come to room temperature prior to infusing.
Infuse the first dose after negative skin test results obtained.
Administer through a vascular shunt, arterial-venous fistula, or a high-flow central vein using an in-line 0.22- to 1-micron filter. Infuse over at least 4 hours.
Closely observe the patient for any signs of an allergic reaction. Keep appropriate resuscitation equipment at the patient's bedside during the infusion.
 
Reconstitution and Dilution (Thymoglobulin)
Allow Thymoglobulin and diluent to come to room temperature prior to reconstituting the powder.
Reconstitute each vial with 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection. Gently rotate the vial until powder is dissolved; final concentration is 5 mg/mL. If particulate matter persists, discard the vial.
Thymoglobulin may be diluted in 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Transfer the contents of the calculated number of Thymoglobulin vials into a bag of infusion solution. The recommended volume of infusion solution is 50 mL of infusion solution per each vial of drug. Final total volume of the diluted solution is typically 50 to 500 mL with a final concentration of 0.5 mg/mL. Mix the solution by inverting the bag gently once or twice. Do not shake.
Infusion solutions should be used immediately; no preservatives are in the vials. Discard any unused drug.
 
Intravenous infusion (Thymoglobulin)
Skin testing is not recommended for Thymoglobulin.
Premedication with corticosteroids, acetaminophen, and antihistamines 1 hour prior to each infusion is recommended and may reduce the incidence of infusion-related adverse reactions.
Infuse the first dose over at least 6 hours into a high-flow vein using an in-line 0.22-micron filter. Subsequent doses should be infused over at least 4 hours.
Closely observe the patient for any signs of an allergic reaction. Keep appropriate resuscitation equipment at the patient's bedside during the infusion.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

1.5 mg/kg/day IV for Thymoglobulin and 20 mg/kg/day IV for Atgam are FDA-approved maximum dosages; however, higher doses have been used off-label with maximum dosage dependent on indication.

Geriatric

1.5 mg/kg/day IV for Thymoglobulin and 20 mg/kg/day IV for Atgam are FDA-approved maximum dosages; however, higher doses have been used off-label with maximum dosage dependent on indication.

Adolescents

1.5 mg/kg/day IV for Thymoglobulin and 20 mg/kg/day IV for Atgam are FDA-approved maximum dosages; however, higher doses have been used off-label with maximum dosage dependent on indication.

Children

1.5 mg/kg/day IV for Thymoglobulin and 20 mg/kg/day IV for Atgam are FDA-approved maximum dosages; however, higher doses have been used off-label with maximum dosage dependent on indication.

Infants

1.5 mg/kg/day IV for Thymoglobulin; safety and efficacy have not been established for Atgam.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier