=== Axatilimab — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5553)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Axatilimab is a humanized immunoglobulin G (IgG4) monoclonal antibody for the treatment of chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) in patients who have failed at least two prior lines of systemic therapy and weigh at least 40 kg.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 0.3 mg/kg (Max: 35 kg) IV per dose.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): conjunctivitis, cough, cystitis, dyspnea, enterocolitis, fever, infection, pharyngitis, respiratory failure, rhinitis, sepsis, sinusitis, bronchospasm, bullous rash, chills, exfoliative dermatitis, flushing, hot flashes, infusion-related reactions, maculopapular rash, rash, urticaria, arthralgia, asthenia, back pain, edema, fatigue, flank pain, malaise, musculoskeletal pain

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy Axatilimab may cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action. No human or animal data are available to assess drug-associated risk.

AXATILIMAB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

NIKTIMVO

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of recurrent or refractory chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in patients who have failed at least two prior lines of systemic therapy

Intravenous dosage
Adults


0.3 mg/kg, up to a maximum dose of 35 mg, via intravenous infusion every 2 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.


Children and Adolescents weighing 40 kg or more


0.3 mg/kg, up to a maximum dose of 35 mg, via intravenous infusion every 2 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


Axatilimab may cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action. No human or animal data are available to assess drug-associated risk. Axatilimab is a humanized IgG4 monoclonal antibody, and IgG crosses the placenta. Axatilimab inhibits colony stimulating factor-1 receptors (CSF-1R), which plays a role in fetal immune protection, maintenance of pregnancy, and embryo-fetal development. In rodent models, disruption of CSF-1R or CSF-1 results in prenatal and perinatal death, impaired growth, and abnormalities affecting multiple organ systems, including skeletal and reproductive systems.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with axatilimab. Based on the mechanism of action, axatilimab may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception during axatilimab treatment and for 30 days after the last dose.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding during axatilimab treatment and for 30 days after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of axatilimab in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. However, maternal immunoglobulin G (IgG) is known to be present in human milk and axatilimab is a humanized IgG4 monoclonal antibody.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Axatilimab may cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action. No human or animal data are available to assess drug-associated risk. Axatilimab is a humanized IgG4 monoclonal antibody, and IgG crosses the placenta. Axatilimab inhibits colony stimulating factor-1 receptors (CSF-1R), which plays a role in fetal immune protection, maintenance of pregnancy, and embryo-fetal development. In rodent models, disruption of CSF-1R or CSF-1 results in prenatal and perinatal death, impaired growth, and abnormalities affecting multiple organ systems, including skeletal and reproductive systems.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Axatilimab products.

Adverse Reaction
conjunctivitis, cough, cystitis, dyspnea, enterocolitis, fever, infection, pharyngitis, respiratory failure, rhinitis, sepsis, sinusitis


During the clinical trial, 57% of axatilimab-treated patients developed an infection (43% viral infection, 15% bacterial infection), with 14% experiencing a Grade 3 or 4 infection. Specific infections included atypical pneumonia, bacteremia, bronchitis, conjunctivitis, cystitis, device-related infection, enterocolitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal infection, groin abscess, hepatic abscess, hordeolum, jaw abscess, naso-pharyngitis, otitis media, pneumonia, respiratory tract infection, rhinitis, sepsis, sinusitis, tooth infection, upper respiratory traction infection, urinary tract infection, and wound infection. Symptoms of an infection that were reported by axatilimab recipients included cough (18%), dyspnea (15%), fever (15%), and respiratory failure.


bronchospasm, bullous rash, chills, exfoliative dermatitis, flushing, hot flashes, infusion-related reactions, maculopapular rash, rash, urticaria


Infusion-related reactions were reported in 18% of patients treated with axatilimab during the clinical trial, with 1.3% of drug recipients experiencing a Grade 3 or 4 reaction. Symptoms of infusion-related reactions include chills, dyspnea, fever, flushing, increased blood pressure, and rash. Hypersensitivities to axatilimab were noted in 13% of patients (3% Grade 3 or 4) and were recorded as bronchospasm, flushing, hot flashes, infusion-related hypersensitivity, and urticaria. Rashes that were observed in 10% of drug recipients included bullous rash or dermatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, generalized rash, and maculopapular rash. For Grade 1 or 2 reactions, treat with antihistamines and antipyretics and either decrease the infusion rate by 50% or temporarily interrupt the infusion until symptoms resolve. For subsequent infusions, premedicate with an antihistamine and antipyretic and resume the infusion at 50% of the prior infusion rate. Permanently discontinue treatment in patients who experience a Grade 3 or 4 reaction.


arthralgia, asthenia, back pain, edema, fatigue, flank pain, malaise, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, peripheral edema


Musculoskeletal adverse reactions reported by 35% of patients treated with axatilimab during the clinical trial included arthralgia, back pain, flank pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, and pain in the extremities. Thirty-two percent (32%) of drug recipients also reported asthenia, fatigue, and malaise, while 13% developed edema or peripheral edema.


anorexia, colitis, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting


Gastrointestinal adverse events reported during the axatilimab clinical trial included decreased appetite or anorexia (11%), nausea and vomiting (23%), and diarrhea or colitis (18%).


dizziness, headache, migraine


During the axatilimab clinical trial, 11% of drug recipients experienced dizziness and 20% developed a headache or migraine.


bleeding, epistaxis, hematoma, vaginal bleeding


Bleeding events (defined as contusion, epistaxis, hematochezia, hematoma, vaginal bleeding) were noted in 11% of patients treated with axatilimab during the clinical trial.


hypertension, pruritus


Other clinically relevant adverse events reported in less than 10% of patients treated with axatilimab during the clinical trial include hypertension, pruritus, and periorbital edema.


elevated hepatic enzymes


Elevated hepatic enzymes were noted in up to 61% of patients who received axatilimab during the clinical trial, with up to 5% of patients experiencing Grade 3 or 4 elevations. Specifically, increases in aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT), and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) occurred in 61%, 51%, 39%, and 28% of patients, respectively. Monitor liver function tests at baseline, every 2 weeks for the first month of therapy, and every 1 to 2 months thereafter. For patients with Grade 3 elevations in AST or ALT and a total bilirubin at Grade 1 or less on the day of dosing, a dose reduction is required. Treatment must be permanently discontinued in patients who experience Grade 4 AST or ALT elevations or in patients with confirmed drug-induced hepatotoxicity.


anemia, hyperamylasemia, hypercalcemia, hypophosphatemia


Anemia, or decreased hemoglobin, was identified in 48% of axatilimab recipients during the clinical trial; 4% developed Grade 3 or 4 hemoglobin decrease. Other laboratory abnormalities included decreased phosphate or hypophosphatemia (51%), increased lipase (34%, 3% Grade 3 or 4), increased amylase or hyperamylasemia (32%), increased calcium or hypercalcemia (31%, 1% Grade 3 or 4), and increased creatine phosphokinase (25%).


antibody formation


During the clinical trial, anti-drug antibody formation (ADAs) was assessed in 276 chronic graft-versus-host disease patients who received axatilimab. The incidence of ADAs was 33.7% (n = 93 of 276) following a median exposure of 7.8 months. Among these 93 patients, 47 developed neutralizing antibodies (NAb). The presence of NAb correlated with the occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions; with hypersensitivity reactions occurring in 26% of those with NAb and only 4% of those without NAb.


growth inhibition


Based on animal findings, it is advised to monitor bone development and for growth inhibition in pediatric patients who receive axatilimab. In a 6-month study involving sexually immature cynomolgus monkeys, weekly doses of 10 mg/kg or more resulted in decreased bone markers, thickening of the growth plate and metaphysis, and degeneration of the growth plate in the femur. Decreases in bone biomarkers were also observed in sexually mature monkeys who received doses of 30 mg/kg/week or more.


Description

Axatilimab is a humanized immunoglobulin G (IgG4) monoclonal antibody for the treatment of chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) in patients who have failed at least two prior lines of systemic therapy and weigh at least 40 kg. It targets colony-stimulating factor-1 receptors (CSF-1R) on monocytes and macrophages, inhibiting their activation by CSF-1 and interleukin (IL)-34. By blocking CSF-1R, axatilimab reduces proinflammatory and profibrotic monocytes and macrophages implicated in the pathogenesis of cGVHD. Efficacy of axatilimab was evaluated in one randomized, open-label, multicenter study which reported partial response rates in 75% of those studied (n=79); no subject had a complete response. Adverse reactions, including elevated hepatic enzymes, infections, and musculoskeletal pain, have been commonly reported. Infusion-related reactions, requiring premedication and monitoring, have also been reported. Serious adverse reactions occurred in 44% of patients during the clinical trial, with 10% discontinuing treatment. Dosage modifications or treatment interruptions for adverse reactions may be necessary. Axatilimab may cause fetal harm, so effective contraception is advised during treatment and for 30 days after. Axatilimab was FDA-approved in August 2024.

Mechanism Of Action

Axatilimab is a humanized immunoglobulin G (IgG4) monoclonal antibody for treatment of chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD). Axatilimab targets the colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor (CSF-1R) expressed on monocytes and macrophages. By binding to CSF-1R, axatilimab inhibits its activation by CSF-1 and interleukin (IL)-34, thereby affecting the migration, proliferation, differentiation, and survival of these immune cells. This blockade reduces the levels of proinflammatory and profibrotic monocytes and macrophages, which are implicated in the pathogenesis of cGVHD.

Pharmacokinetics

Axatilimab is administered by intravenous infusion. Once in systemic circulation, the drug has a volume of distribution of 6.06 L. It is metabolized into small peptides by catabolic pathways. Total clearance is composed of linear and non-linear components, such that after single-doses ranging from 0.15 mg/kg to 3 mg/kg (0.5- to 10-times the recommended dose), the clearance decreases from 2.32 mL/hour/kg to 0.21 mL/hour/kg and the mean terminal half-life increases from 10.7 hours to 108 hours. For the recommended dose of 0.3 mg/kg (maximum 35 mg), the median time to 97% reduction from maximum plasma concentration (i.e., end of infusion) is 4 days (range: 2.3 to 7.2 days).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

The systemic exposure (AUC) of axatilimab increases in a greater than dose-proportional manner following single-doses over a range of 0.15 mg/kg to 3 mg/kg (0.5- to 10-times the recommended dose). No systemic accumulation occurs following administration of the recommended 0.3 mg/kg (maximum 35 mg) dose.

Hepatic Impairment

Mild hepatic impairment does not significantly affect axatilimab pharmacokinetics. The effects of moderate to severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 1.5-times ULN and any AST increase) are unknown.

Renal Impairment

Mild to moderate renal impairment (30 to 89 mL/minute) does not significantly affect axatilimab pharmacokinetics. The effects of severe renal impairment (15 to 29 mL/minute) are unknown.

Pediatrics

At the recommended dose of 0.3 mg/kg (maximum 35 mg) every 2 weeks, systemic exposures (AUC) of axatilimab in pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more are comparable to those in adults. However, pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg had lower maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax), trough concentrations (Cmin), and average concentrations at the same weight-based dosage.

Gender Differences

Gender has not been shown to have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of axatilimab.

Ethnic Differences

Ethnicity has not been shown to have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of axatilimab.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


For intravenous infusion only.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Axatilimab is a slightly opalescent, pale brownish yellow solution. Discard the vial if the solution is cloudy, discolored, or contains visible particles.


Intravenous Administration

Preparation
Axatilimab is available in two different concentrations (50 mg/mL and 10 mg/mL); further dilution is necessary before administration. Check vial labels to confirm concentration prior to preparation.
Ensure aseptic technique is used to prepare the infusion and do not shake the vial.
Determine the dose and total volume of solution needed.
 
Dilution
Withdraw the calculated volume of axatilimab solution from the vial and add it to a 0.9% Sodium Chloride infusion bag made of polyvinyl chloride, polyolefin, polyolefin with polyamide, or ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA). Select a volume of diluent that achieves a final concentration of 0.24 mg/mL to 0.75 mg/mL.
Discard the vial and any unused solution.
Gently invert the infusion bag to mix. Do not shake.
The diluted solution is a clear to slightly opalescent, colorless solution that may contain trace amounts of translucent to white particles. Discard if the solution is cloudy, discolored, or contains extraneous particulate matter other than trace amounts of translucent to white particles.
Storage: Administer immediately after dilution. If not used immediately, the diluted solution can be stored at room temperature up to 25 degrees C (77 degrees F) for no more than 4 hours from the time of preparation to the end of the infusion. Alternatively, the diluted solution may be kept in the refrigerator at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F) for no more than 24 hours; do not freeze. If refrigerated, allow the diluted solution to come to room temperature before administering. The diluted solution must be administered within 4 hours (including infusion time) once it is removed from the refrigerator.
 
Intravenous Infusion
Administer over 30 minutes through a dedicated infusion line that includes a sterile, low-protein binding 0.2-micron in-line or add-on polyethersulfone (PES) filter.
After administration, flush the infusion line with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Do not administer other medications concurrently through the same infusion line.
Monitor for signs and symptoms of infusion-related reactions.
For patients experiencing a Grade 1 or 2 reaction, treat with antihistamines and antipyretics and either decrease the infusion rate by 50% or temporarily interrupt the infusion until symptoms resolve. For subsequent infusions, premedicate with an antihistamine and antipyretic and resume the infusion at 50% of the prior infusion rate.
For patients experiencing a Grade 3 or 4 reaction, permanently discontinue treatment.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

0.3 mg/kg (Max: 35 kg) IV per dose.

Geriatric

0.3 mg/kg (Max: 35 kg) IV per dose.

Adolescents


40 kg or more: 0.3 mg/kg (Max: 35 kg) IV per dose.
less than 40 kg: Safety and efficacy not established.


Children

40 kg or more: 0.3 mg/kg (Max: 35 kg) IV per dose.
less than 40 kg: Safety and efficacy not established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy not established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Forms

Niktimvo 22mg/0.44mL Solution for Injection

Niktimvo 22mg/2.2mL Solution for Injection

Niktimvo 9mg/0.18mL Solution for Injection

Niktimvo 9mg/0.9mL Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Grade 3 elevations in AST or ALT with total bilirubin at Grade 1 or less (on day of dosing): Withhold the infusion until hepatic enzymes recover to Grade 2, then resume infusion at 0.2 mg/kg (Max: 23 mg) every 2 weeks.
Elevations in AST or ALT of at least 3-times ULN with total bilirubin at least 2-times ULN and ALP less than 2-times ULN (regardless of time of reaction): Withhold the infusion and investigate for drug-induced hepatic injury. If confirmed, permanently discontinue.
Grade 4 elevations in AST or ALT (regardless of time of reaction): Permanently discontinue.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier