=== Capsaicin/Metaxalone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 4907)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Capsaicin; metaxalone includes a topical analgesic, capsaicin, and oral central nervous system (CNS) depressant, metaxalone, for the treatment of musculoskeletal pain.

Routes: oral, topical; Common adult doses: Metaxalone: 3200 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, dysgeusia, headache, irritability, peripheral neuropathy, serotonin syndrome, anaphylactoid reactions, burns, contact dermatitis, drug-induced body odor, ecchymosis, edema, erythema, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, maculopapular rash, paresthesias, pruritus, rash (unspecified), skin irritation, urticaria, xerosis, cough, nasal irritation, pharyngitis, sinusitis, sneezing, throat irritation

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Metaxalone is contraindicated in people with severe renal impairment, including renal failure. Use capsaicin; metaxalone products with caution and consider additional follow-up in individuals with mild or moderate renal impairment.

Brand Names
  - Metaxall CP

Dosage Forms
  - Metaxall CP

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (metaxalone tablets)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults and Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        800 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily.
      Heading
      Topical dosage (capsaicin 0.025% cream)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Apply sparingly to affected area(s) up to 4 times daily. Discontinue use and seek medical advice if condition worsens, symptoms persist for 7 days or more, or symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days. Stop treatment and seek immediate medical attention if burning, pain, swelling, or blistering of the skin occurs.
    Heading
    For the treatment of musculoskeletal pain associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions, as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Metaxalone is contraindicated in people with severe renal impairment, including renal failure. Use capsaicin; metaxalone products with caution and consider additional follow-up in individuals with mild or moderate renal impairment.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Do not use capsaicin in individuals who are known to be sensitive to the fruits of capsicum plants (e.g., hot peppers).
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Metaxalone is contraindicated in individuals with severe hepatic impairment, including hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class C). Use capsaicin; metaxalone products with caution and consider additional follow-up in individuals with mild or moderate hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    anemia, hemolytic anemia
    General Information
    Metaxalone is contraindicated in individuals with a known tendency for anemia, including drug-induced anemia and hemolytic anemia. Therefore, capsaicin; metaxalone products are also contraindicated for individuals with these conditions.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or doing any activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of capsaicin; metaxalone are known. Metaxalone can cause sedation, which may interfere with everyday activity. Use metaxalone with caution in combination with ethanol ingestion or other CNS depressants.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The Beers Criteria identifies skeletal muscle relaxants, such as metaxalone, as potentially inappropriate for geriatric adults. This is due to poor tolerance, potential anticholinergic effects, sedation, increased fracture risk, and questionable effectiveness at dosages that older adults can tolerate. Geriatric adults may also be especially susceptible to an enhanced CNS depressant effect of metaxalone if the drug is taken with food.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Capsaicin; metaxalone products should only be used during pregnancy, particularly during early pregnancy, if the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks from metaxalone use. Reproduction studies in rats have not revealed evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to metaxalone. Postmarketing experience with metaxalone has not revealed evidence of fetal injury, but such experience is limited and cannot exclude the possibility of infrequent or subtle damage to the human fetus. Safe use of metaxalone has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. Capsaicin topical use alone likely presents low risk for use during pregnancy. Capsaicin is negligibly absorbed systemically following topical administration, and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to capsaicin. In animal reproductive studies, no evidence of malformations was observed when capsaicin was administered by the topical route (patch or topical solution) to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses of up to 11- and 37-times, respectively, the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 716 mg/day capsaicin via skin patch.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use caution when administering capsaicin; metaxalone products during breast-feeding. It is not known whether metaxalone is excreted in human breast milk. If metaxalone must be used during lactation, monitor the infant for sedation, gastrointestinal upset, and vomiting. Topical use of capsaicin alone appears to be compatible with breast-feeding. Capsaicin is negligibly absorbed systemically following topical administration, and breast-feeding is not expected to result in exposure of the infant to capsaicin. There are no data on the effects of capsaicin on milk production. To minimize potential direct exposure of capsaicin to the breastfed infant, avoid applying capsaicin directly to the nipple and areola.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Capsaicin; metaxalone products should only be used during pregnancy, particularly during early pregnancy, if the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks from metaxalone use. Reproduction studies in rats have not revealed evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to metaxalone. Postmarketing experience with metaxalone has not revealed evidence of fetal injury, but such experience is limited and cannot exclude the possibility of infrequent or subtle damage to the human fetus. Safe use of metaxalone has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. Capsaicin topical use alone likely presents low risk for use during pregnancy. Capsaicin is negligibly absorbed systemically following topical administration, and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to capsaicin. In animal reproductive studies, no evidence of malformations was observed when capsaicin was administered by the topical route (patch or topical solution) to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses of up to 11- and 37-times, respectively, the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 716 mg/day capsaicin via skin patch.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use caution when administering capsaicin; metaxalone products during breast-feeding. It is not known whether metaxalone is excreted in human breast milk. If metaxalone must be used during lactation, monitor the infant for sedation, gastrointestinal upset, and vomiting. Topical use of capsaicin alone appears to be compatible with breast-feeding. Capsaicin is negligibly absorbed systemically following topical administration, and breast-feeding is not expected to result in exposure of the infant to capsaicin. There are no data on the effects of capsaicin on milk production. To minimize potential direct exposure of capsaicin to the breastfed infant, avoid applying capsaicin directly to the nipple and areola.

Interactions
AbobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Skeletal muscle relaxants should be combined cautiously with cyclic antidepressants like maprotiline because they could cause additive CNS depressant effects. Depending on the specific agent (e.g., cyclobenzaprine, and orphenadrine), additive anticholinergic effects may also be seen. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Patients should be monitored for excessive adverse effects from either agent.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants, such as certain sedatives and hypnotics, can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with metaxalone can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid agonists with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of opioid agonists and metaxalone increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of IV methylene blue and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Consult the IV methylene blue product label for management. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Botulinum Toxins: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of buprenorphine with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of buprenorphine and metaxalone increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of buprenorphine with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of buprenorphine and metaxalone increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of butorphanol with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of butorphanol with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of butorphanol and metaxalone increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Additive CNS depressant effects may be possible when sodium oxybate is used concurrently with skeletal muscle relaxants.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and metaxalone. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of carbamazepine and metaxalone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and metaxalone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Skeletal muscle relaxants should be combined cautiously with clozapine because they could cause additive depressant effects and possible respiratory depression or hypotension.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary. (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary. (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
DaxibotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as metaxalone, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Due to the anesthetic effects of dexmedetomidine, concurrent use with other CNS depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, could result in additive sedative effects and possibly prolong recovery from anesthesia. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with metaxalone can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with dronabinol can result in additive CNS depression and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Utilize appropriate caution if these drugs are given together.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of droperidol and other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants, such as certain sedatives and hypnotics, can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and metaxalone with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome and additive CNS depression. Monitor for excessive sedation, somnolence, and serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions. (Minor) Administering metaxolone with food may increase the risk of common drug-related side effects after administration and may result in a decreased duration of drug effect. Administration of metaxaolone with a high-fat meal increases the mean Cmax and AUC. Administer metaxolone on an empty stomach, 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals.
Frovatriptan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and metaxalone. Concomitant use of gabapentin with metaxalone may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and metaxalone is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and serotonin-receptor antagonists (5HT-3 receptor antagonists) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of IV methylene blue and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Consult the IV methylene blue product label for management. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted.
IncobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation, somnolence, and serotonin syndrome during coadministration of lasmiditan and metaxalone. Inform patients taking this combination of the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and serotonin syndrome, particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and metaxalone. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and metaxalone may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of linezolid and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and metaxalone. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or performing any other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the combination are known.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Loxapine is a central nervous system (CNS) depressant. The concurrent use of loxapine with other CNS depressants (e.g., muscle relaxants such as metaxolone) can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and syncope. Therefore, consider reducing the dose of CNS depressants if used concomitantly with loxapine.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants, such as certain sedatives and hypnotics, can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of IV methylene blue and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Consult the IV methylene blue product label for management. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
Methylene Blue: (Moderate) Concomitant use of IV methylene blue and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Consult the IV methylene blue product label for management. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mirtazapine with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted.
Molindone: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of nalbuphine with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of nalbuphine and metaxalone increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Naratriptan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and serotonin-receptor antagonists (5HT-3 receptor antagonists) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
OnabotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Ondansetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and serotonin-receptor antagonists (5HT-3 receptor antagonists) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Palonosetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and serotonin-receptor antagonists (5HT-3 receptor antagonists) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of pentazocine with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of pentazocine with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of pentazocine and metaxalone increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted. (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and metaxalone. Concomitant use of pregabalin with metaxalone may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of primaquine and metaxalone due to the risk for hemolytic anemia. Both medications are associated with this adverse effect and concomitant use may increase risk.
Primidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
RimabotulinumtoxinB: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Serotonin-Receptor Antagonists: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and serotonin-receptor antagonists (5HT-3 receptor antagonists) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Additive CNS depressant effects may be possible when sodium oxybate is used concurrently with skeletal muscle relaxants.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and St. John's Wort may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and metaxalone. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
SUMAtriptan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with other central nervous system depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs, such skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
traZODone: (Moderate) Coadministration of trazodone with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of skeletal muscle relaxants like metaxalone. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with metaxalone may result in additive CNS-depressant effects, such as sedation, and may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Use with caution and monitor for the emergence of excessive sedation or serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment instituted.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants, such as certain sedatives and hypnotics, can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Ziprasidone has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. Additive CNS depressant effects are possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with any CNS depressant, including metaxalone.
ZOLMitriptan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants, such as certain sedatives and hypnotics, can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, dysgeusia, headache, irritability, peripheral neuropathy, serotonin syndrome
    General Information
    Central nervous system (CNS) adverse reactions are among the most frequent to occur with metaxalone use. Observed reactions include drowsiness, dizziness, headache, and nervousness (anxiety) or irritability. Serotonin syndrome has been reported with metaxalone use, and generally occurred when metaxalone was used concomitantly with other serotonergic drugs or when doses higher than the recommended maximum dose were exceeded. Educate patients about the signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, which may include clonus, agitation, diaphoresis, tremor, hyperreflexia, hypertonia, and temperature elevation. Patients should seek medical immediate medical attention if these symptoms occur. CNS adverse reactions observed with capsaicin include headache, peripheral neuropathy, dizziness, and dysgeusia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      serotonin syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions observed with metaxalone include nausea, vomiting, or other GI upset (dyspepsia).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, burns, contact dermatitis, drug-induced body odor, ecchymosis, edema, erythema, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, maculopapular rash, paresthesias, pruritus, rash (unspecified), skin irritation, urticaria, xerosis
    General Information
    Anaphylactoid reactions have been rarely reported with metaxalone use. Other observed hypersensitivity reactions include rash (unspecified) with or without pruritus. The most common adverse effects associated with use of capsaicin are transient skin irritation, application site reactions including contact dermatitis, pruritus, scaling, erythema, and/or paresthesias (e.g., burning, stinging, warm sensation) at the site of application; the severity of this effect appears to be dose-related. With the use of capsaicin cream or gel, this sensation usually disappears after the first several days of continuous treatment. Factors such as exposure of the treated area to heat or humidity, direct sunlight, wrappings (e.g., clothing or bandages), bathing in warm water, or sweating may intensify the sensation. During clinical trials, the use of the capsaicin 8% topical patch was associated with application site reactions including erythema (63%), pain (42%), pruritus (6%), papules or maculopapular rash (6%), edema (4%), swelling (2%), and dryness or xerosis (2%). The majority of reactions were considered mild to moderate. Other application site reactions reported following treatment with capsaicin 8% topical patch include urticaria, ecchymosis (bruising), exfoliation, inflammation, anesthesia, site warmth, excoriation, hypoesthesia, and hyperesthesia. Generalized pruritus (2%) and drug-induced body odor (abnormal skin odor) have also occurred. The FDA has warned healthcare providers and consumers about the rare risk of serious skin injuries, including first to third degree burns, with the use of over the counter topical analgesics used for mild muscle and joint pain. Post-marketing surveillance and medical literature review detected 43 cases of burns on application sites with the use of topical analgesic patches, balms, and creams. Few cases have been reported with capsaicin containing products. Many burns appeared in areas where the product was applied following 1 application, with severe burning or blistering occurring within 24 hours. Some burns resulted in hospitalization. Patients should not apply topical analgesics such as capsaicin to wounds or broken, irritated skin, and the area should not be tightly wrapped or bandaged. Contact with mucous membranes and application of heat to the affected area should be avoided. Items such as heating pads, lamps, or hot water bags and bottles may increase the risk of burns. Discuss the risk of burns with patients, as warnings on over the counter topical analgesics for joint or muscle pain are not required. Patients who experience pain, skin blistering, or swelling should stop use and contact their healthcare provider for treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      burns
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      drug-induced body odor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      skin irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      contact dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperesthesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    jaundice
    General Information
    Jaundice has been reported with metaxalone use. Metaxalone is contraindicated for use in patients with significantly impaired hepatic function. Administer with great care to patients with pre-existing liver impairment or disease. Serial liver function tests (LFTs) should be performed in these patients during use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hemolytic anemia, leukopenia
    General Information
    Leukopenia and hemolytic anemia have been reported with metaxalone use. Metaxalone is contraindicated for use in patients with a known tendency to drug-induced, hemolytic, or other anemias.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hemolytic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    cough, nasal irritation, pharyngitis, sinusitis, sneezing, throat irritation
    General Information
    Capsaicin is a known respiratory irritant. Cough, sneezing, nasal irritation, and throat irritation have been reported in patients treated with capsaicin. Do not hold capsaicin products or any treatment materials near the face. Infections that have been reported during use include bronchitis, naso-pharyngitis, and sinusitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nasal irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sneezing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      throat irritation
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Metaxalone has been reported to cause false-positive Benedict's tests for glucose, due to an unknown reducing substance that produces laboratory test interference. A glucose-specific test will differentiate findings when capsaicin; metaxalone products are used.

Description
  Text
  Capsaicin; metaxalone includes a topical analgesic, capsaicin, and oral central nervous system (CNS) depressant, metaxalone, for the treatment of musculoskeletal pain. Metaxalone was FDA-approved in August 1962. Many formulations of capsaicin are available over-the-counter and are used for temporary relief of pain from arthritis, myalgias, arthralgias, and neuralgias. The most common adverse effects associated with metaxalone and capsaicin are CNS depression- and dermatologic-related with metaxalone and capsaicin, respectively.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Capsaicin: Capsaicin depletes and prevents re-accumulation of substance P in peripheral sensory neurons. Substance P is found in slow-conducting, unmyelinated type C neurons that innervate the dermis and epidermis. Substance P is thought to be the primary chemical mediator of pain impulses from the periphery to the central nervous system. It can also be released into joint tissues, where it activates inflammatory substances involved in the development of rheumatoid arthritis. By depleting substance P, capsaicin renders skin and joints insensitive to pain since local pain impulses cannot be transmitted to the brain. When capsaicin therapy is discontinued, substance P reaccumulates and neuronal sensitivity returns to normal.
 
Metaxalone: The mechanism of action of metaxalone has not been established. Metaxalone has no direct effect on the contractile mechanism of striated muscle, the motor end plate, or the nerve fiber. Its mode of action may be related to its sedative properties.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Metaxalone: In healthy adult volunteers, a 400 mg dose of metaxalone reaches mean peak plasma concentrations in about 3 hours (Tmax) when given on an empty stomach and in about 4 hours when given with food. Administering 400 mg with a high-fat meal increases the mean Cmax and AUC to 177.5% and 123.5%, respectively. The terminal half-life is approximately 9 hours, decreasing to 2.4 hours when given with a high-fat meal. Increasing the dose to 800 mg in healthy volunteers resulted in a Cmax and systemic exposure roughly double that seen with the 400 mg dose. Dose proportionality at doses above 800 mg has not been evaluated. In healthy volunteers receiving 800 mg with a high-fat meal, the mean Cmax and AUC increase by 193.6% and 146.4%, respectively, compared to fasting conditions; the Tmax with a high-fat meal is delayed to 4.9 hours vs. 3 hours under fasting conditions. The terminal half-life was also decreased from 8 hours to about 4 hours.
    Name
    Topical Route
    Description
    Capsaicin: Following the topical application of capsaicin, systemic exposure is minimal. Application of a single capsaicin 8% topical patch resulted in low systemic exposure to capsaicin in one-third of an unstated number of studied patients; Cmax was less than 5 ng/mL in all patients and occurred at 60 minutes after patch application.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The impact of hepatic impairment on metaxalone or capsaicin pharmacokinetics has not been determined.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The impact of hepatic impairment on metaxalone or capsaicin pharmacokinetics has not been determined.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Metaxalone: During studies using two, 400 mg metaxalone tablets, the bioavailability of metaxalone increases with age and is more affected under fasted conditions than under fed conditions. Specifically, in the fasted state, the mean systemic exposure was 14,531 ng x hour/mL among patients with a mean age of 25.6 +/- 8.7 years, 19,836 ng x hour/mL among patients with a mean age of 39.3 +/- 10.8 years, and 23,797 ng x hour/mL among patients with a mean age of 71.5 +/- 5 years. Similar results were found in regard to Cmax values. The highest Cmax and AUC concentrations were noted among the oldest age group in the fed state.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Metaxalone: Metaxalone bioavailability appears to be higher in females compared to males when comparing Cmax and AUC values, and the mean half-life is longer in females than in males (11.1 hours vs. 7.6 hours, respectively). The apparent volume of distribution is higher in males compared to females, but when adjusted for body weight, the difference was not significant.
  Text
  Capsaicin: Capsaicin is administered topically. Capsaicin binds to the TRPV1 proteins located on pain and heat neurons. Capsaicin is metabolized by CYP450 enzymes and carboxyesterase class enzymes; metabolites possess less potential at VR1 receptors.
 
Metaxalone: Metaxalone is administered orally. Protein binding and absolute bioavailability are not known. However, based on apparent volume of distribution (V/F approximately 800 L) and lipophilicity (log P = 2.42), it appears metaxalone is extensively distributed throughout body tissues. Metabolism occurs in the liver. Excretion is via the urine as unidentified metabolites. The half-life of metaxalone is approximately 9 +/- 4.8 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes (Metaxalone): CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes (Capsaicin): CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4
Capsaicin is extensively metabolized by CYP450 isoenzymes; however, clinically significant drug interactions are not expected. Metaxalone appears to be a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4; the isoenzymes CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 are involved to a lesser extent.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Metaxalone tablets
May administer without regard to meals. Administration with food may enhance general central nervous system depression.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Administration Details
      Name
      Cream/Ointment/Lotion Formulations
      Description
      Capsaicin cream
For first use, apply to a small skin area to test for sensitivity or skin reaction.
Do not apply to the face.
Apply sparingly to affected area and gently rub until fully absorbed.
Unless treating hands, wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after use.
Avoid contact with eyes. Do not get the cream on mucous membranes, into eyes, or on contact lenses. If contact occurs or if pain, discomfort, or skin redness occurs, continually rinse the area with cool water and seek medical help.
Do not apply to wounds or damaged, broken, sunburned, chapped, or irritated skin.
Do not apply within 1 hour before or after bath, shower, hot tub, sauna, or strenuous exercise due to a potential for increased absorption. Warm water, perspiration or open pores can intensify the effect of this product and burning sensation.
Treated individuals should avoid conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature, including the application of heat, the use of a heating pad or hot water bottle, or direct sunlight (UV) exposure to the area of product application immediately before, during, or after use. Treated areas may be sensitive to heat for a few days after treatment.
Do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area.
Avoid inhaling airborne material from dried residue. This can result in coughing, sneezing, tearing, throat or respiratory irritation.
A burning sensation may occur upon initial application but generally disappears with continued use. For severe burning discomfort, remove excess product with a soft cloth and cooking oil.
Keep out of reach of children and pets.
    Name
    Topical Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Metaxalone: 3200 mg/day PO.
Capsaicin 0.025% cream: 4 applications/day.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Metaxalone: 3200 mg/day PO.
Capsaicin 0.025% cream: 4 applications/day.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Metaxalone: 3200 mg/day PO.
Capsaicin 0.025% cream: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Capsaicin: Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available. It appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
Metaxalone: Administer with great care to patients with pre-existing liver impairment or disease. Serial liver function tests (LFTs) should be performed in these patients during use. Metaxalone is contraindicated in patients with significant hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Capsaicin: Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available. It appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
Metaxalone: Use with caution in patients with renal impairment. Metaxalone is contraindicated in patients with significant renal impairment.
