=== Apraclonidine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 1197)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Apraclonidine, a relatively selective alpha2-adrenergic agonist related to clonidine, is an ophthalmic sympathomimetic agent.

Routes: ophthalmic; Common adult doses: 6 drops/day of the 0.5% ophthalmic solution instilled into the affected eye(s); 2 drops/day of the 1% ophthalmic solution instilled into the affected eye(s).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dysgeusia, asthenia, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, irritability, libido decrease, paresthesias, apnea, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, hypothermia, hypotonia, hypoxia, lethargy, orthostatic hypotension, pallor, palpitations, respiratory failure, dyspnea, nasal dryness, parosmia, pharyngitis, rhinitis, fatigue, malaise, myalgia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Use apraclonidine with caution when treating patients with cardiovascular disease, including hypertension, severe coronary insufficiency (coronary artery disease), recent acute myocardial infarction, Raynaud phenomenon, cerebrovascular disease, or thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger's disease)....

APRACLONIDINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Iopidine

Indication Specific Dosing

For the prevention or treatment of postsurgical increased intraocular pressure following argon laser trabeculoplasty, argon laser iridotomy, or Nd:YAG posterior capsulotomy

Ophthalmic dosage (1% solution)
<i> </i>Adults


Instill 1 drop into the affected eye(s) one hour before and 1 drop immediately after anterior segment laser surgery.


For short-term adjunctive treatment of increased intraocular pressure in glaucoma patients on maximally tolerated medical therapy who require additional intraocular pressure reduction

Ophthalmic dosage (0.5% solution)
 Adults


Instill 1 to 2 drops into the affected eye(s) 3 times a day.


For the treatment of acute angle-closure glaucoma†

Ophthalmic dosage
Adults


1 drop in the affected eye(s) as a single dose.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

cardiovascular disease, increased risk for procedure-related complications


Use apraclonidine with caution when treating patients with cardiovascular disease, including hypertension, severe coronary insufficiency (coronary artery disease), recent acute myocardial infarction, Raynaud phenomenon, cerebrovascular disease, or thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger's disease). Additionally, there may be an increased risk for procedure-related complications of vasovagal attack during laser surgery; consider the possibility of vasovagal attack and use apraclonidine with caution in patients who have a history of such episodes.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

renal failure, renal impairment


Apraclonidine should be used cautiously in patients with chronic renal failure or renal impairment.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Apraclonidine may cause dizziness and somnolence. Patients should be cautioned to avoid hazardous activities requiring mental alertness, such as driving or operating machinery or activities requiring coordination and concentration, until the medication response is known.


children, infants, neonates


Topical administration of apraclonidine has been reported to cause cardiovascular collapse requiring intubation and ventilation, prolonged lethargy and unresponsiveness, apnea, hypoxia, respiratory failure, bradycardia, hypertension, hypotension, hypothermia, hypotonia, and pallor in children 6 years and younger, including infants and neonates. Appropriate monitoring in a clinical setting should be in place if apraclonidine is used in these pediatric populations.


pregnancy


There are no adequate and well controlled studies of apraclonidine use during human pregnancy. Apraclonidine was embryocidal in rabbits when given in an oral dose of 3 mg/kg/day (150 times the maximum recommended human dose of the 1% solution). Maternal toxicity was observed at 0.3 mg/kg/day (15 times the maximum recommended human dose of the 1% solution). Topical ophthalmic use results in systemic absorption. Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.


breast-feeding


Use apraclonidine with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known whether apraclonidine is present in human milk. FDA-approved labeling for the 1% ophthalmic solution recommends avoiding breastfeeding on the day of use for argon laser trabeculoplasty, argon laser iridotomy, or posterior capsulotomy. If used, advise lactating individuals to perform nasolacrimal occlusion by applying gentle pressure over the tear duct at the medial canthus for one minute or longer after instillation, then wipe away any excess solution from the ocular surface with a tissue. This reduces systemic absorption and potential drug transfer into milk. 


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate and well controlled studies of apraclonidine use during human pregnancy. Apraclonidine was embryocidal in rabbits when given in an oral dose of 3 mg/kg/day (150 times the maximum recommended human dose of the 1% solution). Maternal toxicity was observed at 0.3 mg/kg/day (15 times the maximum recommended human dose of the 1% solution). Topical ophthalmic use results in systemic absorption. Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.


Interactions

Acebutolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
ALFentanil: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Aliskiren: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
ALPRAZolam: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
aMILoride: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effects of systemic clonidine; it is not known whether or not the concomitant use of these agents with apraclonidine can reduce the intraocular pressure lowering effect.
amLODIPine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Amobarbital: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Atenolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Minor) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with apraclonidine can theoretically potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin.
Azilsartan: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Belladonna; Opium: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Benazepril: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Benzodiazepines: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Betaxolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Bisoprolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Bumetanide: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
busPIRone: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines. (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines. (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Candesartan: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Captopril: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Cardiac glycosides: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. It is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with cardiac glycosides.
Carteolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Carvedilol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effects of systemic clonidine; it is not known whether or not the concomitant use of these agents with apraclonidine can reduce the intraocular pressure lowering effect. (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
chlorproMAZINE: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Clevidipine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effects of systemic clonidine; it is not known whether or not the concomitant use of these agents with apraclonidine can reduce the intraocular pressure lowering effect.
clonazePAM: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
cloNIDine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Clorazepate: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Codeine: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines. (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines. (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effects of systemic clonidine; it is not known whether or not the concomitant use of these agents with apraclonidine can reduce the intraocular pressure lowering effect.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
diazePAM: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Digoxin: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. It is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with cardiac glycosides.
dilTIAZem: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with apraclonidine can theoretically potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Doxazosin: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effects of systemic clonidine; it is not known whether or not the concomitant use of these agents with apraclonidine can reduce the intraocular pressure lowering effect.
Doxylamine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
droPERidol: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Eplerenone: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Epoprostenol: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Esmolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Estazolam: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Eszopiclone: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as general anesthetics.
Felodipine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Fenoldopam: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
fentaNYL: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines.
Flurazepam: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Fosinopril: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Furosemide: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
General anesthetics: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as general anesthetics.
guanFACINE: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
hydrALAZINE: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
HYDROcodone: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
HYDROmorphone: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
hydrOXYzine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Iloprost: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effects of systemic clonidine; it is not known whether or not the concomitant use of these agents with apraclonidine can reduce the intraocular pressure lowering effect.
Irbesartan: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Apraclonidine is contraindicated for use in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Apraclonidine should not be administered to patients who have received MAOIs within the previous 14 days. Apraclonidine is a relatively selective alpha-2-adrenergic agonist that is applied topically to the eye. Although no specific drug interactions with systemic medications were identified in clinical studies of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution, the possibility of a serious interaction with MAOIs cannot be excluded.
Isoflurane: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as general anesthetics.
Isradipine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Ketamine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as general anesthetics.
Labetalol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Landiolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Levamlodipine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Levobunolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Levorphanol: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Lisinopril: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Loop diuretics: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
LORazepam: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Losartan: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Mecamylamine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Meperidine: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Meprobamate: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Methadone: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Methohexital: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as general anesthetics.
Methyldopa: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
metOLazone: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Metoprolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Midazolam: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Minoxidil: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Moexipril: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Apraclonidine is contraindicated for use in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Apraclonidine should not be administered to patients who have received MAOIs within the previous 14 days. Apraclonidine is a relatively selective alpha-2-adrenergic agonist that is applied topically to the eye. Although no specific drug interactions with systemic medications were identified in clinical studies of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution, the possibility of a serious interaction with MAOIs cannot be excluded.
Morphine: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Nadolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Nebivolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
NiCARdipine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
NIFEdipine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
niMODipine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Nisoldipine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Nitroprusside: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effects of systemic clonidine; it is not known whether or not the concomitant use of these agents with apraclonidine can reduce the intraocular pressure lowering effect.
Oliceridine: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Olmesartan: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Opiate Agonists: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Oxazepam: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
oxyCODONE: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
oxyMORphone: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
PENTobarbital: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Perindopril: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Perphenazine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effects of systemic clonidine; it is not known whether or not the concomitant use of these agents with apraclonidine can reduce the intraocular pressure lowering effect. (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Apraclonidine is contraindicated for use in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Apraclonidine should not be administered to patients who have received MAOIs within the previous 14 days. Apraclonidine is a relatively selective alpha-2-adrenergic agonist that is applied topically to the eye. Although no specific drug interactions with systemic medications were identified in clinical studies of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution, the possibility of a serious interaction with MAOIs cannot be excluded.
PHENobarbital: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Phenothiazines: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Pindolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Prazosin: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines.
Promethazine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines.
Propofol: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as general anesthetics.
Propranolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effects of systemic clonidine; it is not known whether or not the concomitant use of these agents with apraclonidine can reduce the intraocular pressure lowering effect.
Quazepam: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Quinapril: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Ramelteon: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Ramipril: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Remifentanil: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Remimazolam: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Secobarbital: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Sevoflurane: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as general anesthetics.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Spironolactone: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
SUFentanil: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Tapentadol: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Telmisartan: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Temazepam: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Terazosin: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Thioridazine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines.
Timolol: (Minor) Theoretically, additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with antihypertensive agents.
Torsemide: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
traMADol: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Trandolapril: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Apraclonidine is contraindicated for use in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Apraclonidine should not be administered to patients who have received MAOIs within the previous 14 days. Apraclonidine is a relatively selective alpha-2-adrenergic agonist that is applied topically to the eye. Although no specific drug interactions with systemic medications were identified in clinical studies of apraclonidine ophthalmic solution, the possibility of a serious interaction with MAOIs cannot be excluded.
Treprostinil: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Triamterene: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Triazolam: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effects of systemic clonidine; it is not known whether or not the concomitant use of these agents with apraclonidine can reduce the intraocular pressure lowering effect.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as phenothiazines.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effects of systemic clonidine; it is not known whether or not the concomitant use of these agents with apraclonidine can reduce the intraocular pressure lowering effect.
Valsartan: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Verapamil: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Zaleplon: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Zolpidem: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.


Adverse Reaction
blepharedema, blepharitis, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal erosion, foreign body sensation, hyperemia, keratitis, lacrimation, mydriasis, ocular discharge, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pain, ocular pruritus, photophobia, xerophthalmia


Clinical trials of 0.5% apraclonidine ophthalmic solution had an overall discontinuation rate due to ocular adverse reactions of 15%. Ocular adverse reactions occurring in 5% to 15% of patients receiving the 0.5% apraclonidine ophthalmic solution include hyperemia, ocular pruritus, and ocular discomfort. Other adverse reaction that were reported in 1% to 5% of patients include blanching, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, ocular discharge, xerophthalmia, foreign body sensation, and edema of the lids/blepharedema, and lacrimation/tearing. Ocular reactions noted in less than 1% of patients includes abnormal vision, blepharitis, blepharoconjuncitivits, conjunctival edema, conjunctival follicles, corneal erosion, corneal infiltrate, corneal staining, ocular edema, ocular irritation, keratitis, keratopathy, lid disorder, lid erythema, lid margin crusting, lid retraction, lid scales, and ocular pain, and photophobia. Other adverse reactions noted in investigation trials with the 1% opthalmic solution used for up to 28 days in nonlaser studies include burning, hypotony, and conjunctival microhemorrhage have also been reported. After laser surgery, ocular injection, upper lid elevation, and ocular inflammation all occurred in less than 2% of patients with the 1% ophthalmic solution. Conjunctival blanching and mydriasis have been reported both after laser surgery (less than 2%) and after multi-dose treatment.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia


The ophthalmic solution of apraclonidine may be associated with xerostomia (10%). Less than 3% of patients reported constipation, nausea, and taste perversion (dysgeusia). Abdominal pain, diarrhea, stomach discomfort, and vomiting have also occurred.


tolerance


Tachyphylaxis (tolerance) may develop with 0.5% apraclonidine ophthalmic. This loss of effect is unpredictable with a variable time of onset and appears to be an individual occurrence.


contact dermatitis, pruritus


Contact dermatitis, dermatitis, and angioedema have been reported in less than 3% of patients with the use of apraclonidine ophthalmic. Other adverse events that have been noted include clammy or sweaty palms and pruritus not associated with a rash. Hypersensitivity has been noted in postmarketing reports.


asthenia, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, irritability, libido decrease, paresthesias


Abnormal coordination, asthenia, depression, dizziness, headache, insomnia, nervousness, paresthesias, and drowsiness/somnolence have all been reported in less than 3% of patients during apraclonidine clinical trials. Dream disturbances, irritability, and libido decrease have also occurred.


apnea, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, hypothermia, hypotonia, hypoxia, lethargy, orthostatic hypotension, pallor, palpitations, respiratory failure


Cardiovascular adverse events reported with the use of apraclonidine include arrhythmia (less than 3%), chest pain (unspecified) (less than 3%), bradycardia, vasovagal attack, palpitations, and orthostatic hypotension. Topical administration of apraclonidine may cause serious adverse events in young children and infants. Use of ophthalmic apraclonidine has been reported to cause cardiovascular collapse requiring intubation and ventilation, prolonged lethargy and unresponsiveness, apnea, hypoxia, respiratory failure, bradycardia, hypertension, hypotension, hypothermia, hypotonia, and pallor in pediatric subjects 6 years and younger, including infants and neonates. Appropriate monitoring in a clinical setting should be in place if apraclonidine is used in these pediatric populations.


dyspnea, nasal dryness, parosmia, pharyngitis, rhinitis


Asthma, nasal dryness, dyspnea, parosmia, pharyngitis, and rhinitis have all been reported in less than 3% of patients during apraclonidine clinical trials. Nasal decongestion was reported in less than 2% of patients after use for ocular surgery. Other adverse events that have occurred include nasal burning and increased pharyngeal secretions.


fatigue, malaise, myalgia, peripheral edema


General adverse events reported in less than 3% of patients during apraclonidine use include malaise, myalgia, and peripheral edema. Other reactions reported include head cold sensation, chest heaviness or burning, body heat sensation, extremity pain or numbness, and fatigue.


Description

Apraclonidine, a relatively selective alpha2-adrenergic agonist related to clonidine, is an ophthalmic sympathomimetic agent. There are 2 strengths of the ophthalmic solution available; apraclonidine 0.5% and 1%. Apraclonidine 0.5% is indicated for short-term adjunctive therapy in patients on maximally tolerated medical therapy who require additional intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction. Patients on maximally tolerated medical therapy who are treated with apraclonidine 0.5% ophthalmic solution to delay surgery should have frequent follow-up examinations and treatment should be discontinued if the intraocular pressure rises significantly. Apraclonidine 1% ophthalmic solution is indicated to control or prevent post-surgical elevations in IOP that occur in patients after argon laser trabeculoplasty, argon laser iridotomy or Nd:YAG posterior capsulotomy.

Mechanism Of Action

Apraclonidine is a relatively selective alpha-2-adrenergic agonist.The predominant mechanism of action of apraclonidine is reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) by decreasing aqueous fluid production through stimulation of the alpha-adrenergic system. The major site of action for the reduction of aqueous production is in the ciliary body. After instillation, apraclonidine reduces normal and elevated IOP. Topically applied apraclonidine also produces local vasoconstriction. It does not have significant membrane stabilizing (local anesthetic) activity.

Pharmacokinetics

Apraclonidine is administered ophthalmically. The elimination half-life is 8 hours.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Other Route(s)

Ophthalmic Route
The onset of action of apraclonidine normally occurs within one hour, with a maximum effect within 3 to 5 hours after a single ophthalmic dose. Systemic absorption occurs following topical application of apraclonidine. Peak and trough concentrations of 0.9 ng/mL and 0.5 ng/mL, respectively, were measured in normal volunteers following apraclonidine 0.5% ophthalmic solution dosed at one drop three times a day in both eyes for 10 days.
 
Apraclonidine 1% has been shown to reduce IOP by 1.2 to 4 mmHg when used topically 1 to 3 hours post laser surgery. Results of a placebo-controlled study indicate that apraclonidine 0.5% may delay surgery up to three months for patients with advanced glaucoma and uncontrolled IOP who are receiving maximally tolerated therapy (i.e. a topical beta-adrenergic blocking agent, a sympathomimetic, a systemic carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and/or a parasympathomimetic agent). The 0.5% solution may not further lower IOP in patients already using two aqueous suppressing agents.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Ophthalmic Administration


Apply topically to the eye. For ophthalmic use only.
Instruct patient on proper instillation of eye solution.
Do not touch dropper tip to the eye, fingertips, or any other surface to prevent contamination.
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug product is being used, the drugs should be administered at least 5 minutes apart.
To avoid contamination or the spread of infection, do not use dropper for more than one person.
 
1% Ophthalmic solution
Use a separate container for each single-drop dose and discard each container after use.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

6 drops/day of the 0.5% ophthalmic solution instilled into the affected eye(s); 2 drops/day of the 1% ophthalmic solution instilled into the affected eye(s).

Geriatric

6 drops/day of the 0.5% ophthalmic solution instilled into the affected eye(s); 2 drops/day of the 1% ophthalmic solution instilled into the affected eye(s).

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Apraclonidine Hydrochloride 0.5% Ophthalmic drops, solution

IOPIDINE 1% Ophthalmic Solution

IOPIDINE 1% Ophthalmic Solution

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific dosage guidelines are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustment is needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific dosage guidelines are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustment is needed.

© 2026 Elsevier