=== Adapalene — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 659)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Adapalene is a topical retinoid-like drug for the treatment of mild to moderate acne vulgaris.

Routes: topical; Common adult doses: Maximum dosage information is not available.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): acne vulgaris, application site reaction, atopic dermatitis, blepharedema, conjunctivitis, contact dermatitis, erythema, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, skin discoloration, skin irritation, xerosis, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: If sun exposure cannot be avoided during topical adapalene therapy, sunscreen products and physical sun blocks (protective clothing, hats) are recommended for protection of treated areas. Patients who may have considerable sun exposure due to their occupation and those patients with skin...

ADAPALENE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Differin, Differin Pump, Plixda

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of acne vulgaris

Topical dosage
Adults


Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) once daily in the evening. Combination therapy is recommended.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) once daily in the evening. Combination therapy is recommended.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

skin photosensitivity disorder


Sunlight (UV) exposure may potentiate the effects of adapalene. If sun exposure cannot be avoided during topical adapalene therapy, sunscreen products and physical sun blocks (protective clothing, hats) are recommended for protection of treated areas. Patients who may have considerable sun exposure due to their occupation and those patients with skin photosensitivity disorder should exercise particular caution when using topical adapalene. Weather extremes, such as wind or cold, also may be irritating to patients receiving adapalene.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


Available data on the use of adapalene during human pregnancy are insufficient to establish a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. During clinical trials, people of childbearing potential initiated treatment only after negative pregnancy tests were obtained. However, 2 people receiving the topical lotion and 6 people receiving the topical gel became pregnant during adapalene clinical trials. Pregnancy outcomes for these 8 people were as follows: 3 healthy full-term deliveries, 2 premature deliveries, 2 elective pregnancy terminations, and 1 pregnancy lost to follow-up. In animal studies, teratogenic changes were observed in rats and rabbits receiving oral doses of more than 25 mg/kg/day, representing 40 and 81 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively, of adapalene 0.3% gel and 122 and 243 times the MRHD, respectively, of adapalene lotion. These teratogenic changes included cleft palate, microphthalmia, exophthalmos, encephalocele, skeletal abnormalities, umbilical hernia, and kidney abnormalities. Dermal embryo-fetal development studies of adapalene in rats and rabbits at doses up to 6 mg/kg/day (9.7 and 19.5 times the MRHD, respectively, of adapalene 0.3% gel and 29 and 58 times the MRHD, respectively, of adapalene lotion) showed no fetotoxicity and only minimal increases in skeletal variations (i.e., supernumerary ribs in both species and delayed ossification in rabbits).


breast-feeding


Use adapalene with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of topical adapalene or its metabolite in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production. Adapalene is poorly absorbed through intact human skin and has low systemic exposure; however, it is possible that topical administration of large amounts of drug could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk. To minimize potential exposure to the breastfed child, use adapalene on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breast-feeding. Avoid application to areas with increased risk for potential ingestion by or ocular exposure to the breastfed child.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data on the use of adapalene during human pregnancy are insufficient to establish a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. During clinical trials, people of childbearing potential initiated treatment only after negative pregnancy tests were obtained. However, 2 people receiving the topical lotion and 6 people receiving the topical gel became pregnant during adapalene clinical trials. Pregnancy outcomes for these 8 people were as follows: 3 healthy full-term deliveries, 2 premature deliveries, 2 elective pregnancy terminations, and 1 pregnancy lost to follow-up. In animal studies, teratogenic changes were observed in rats and rabbits receiving oral doses of more than 25 mg/kg/day, representing 40 and 81 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively, of adapalene 0.3% gel and 122 and 243 times the MRHD, respectively, of adapalene lotion. These teratogenic changes included cleft palate, microphthalmia, exophthalmos, encephalocele, skeletal abnormalities, umbilical hernia, and kidney abnormalities. Dermal embryo-fetal development studies of adapalene in rats and rabbits at doses up to 6 mg/kg/day (9.7 and 19.5 times the MRHD, respectively, of adapalene 0.3% gel and 29 and 58 times the MRHD, respectively, of adapalene lotion) showed no fetotoxicity and only minimal increases in skeletal variations (i.e., supernumerary ribs in both species and delayed ossification in rabbits).


Interactions

Aminolevulinic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of adapalene and photosensitizing agents may cause additive phototoxicity; use together with caution.
Methoxsalen: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and adapalene together with caution; the risk of severe burns or phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Moderate) Concomitant use of adapalene and photosensitizing agents may cause additive phototoxicity; use together with caution.
Porfimer: (Major) Avoid coadministration of porfimer with adapalene due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Porfimer is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with porfimer will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like adapalene may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products with adapalene should be done cautiously because of additive local irritation. Particular caution should be exercised in using adapalene in combination with preparations containing salicylic acid. If these preparations have been used, it is advisable not to start therapy with adapalene until the effects of such preparations in the skin have subsided.
Sodium Thiosulfate; Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products with adapalene should be done cautiously because of additive local irritation. Particular caution should be exercised in using adapalene in combination with preparations containing salicylic acid. If these preparations have been used, it is advisable not to start therapy with adapalene until the effects of such preparations in the skin have subsided.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with adapalene is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like adapalene may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.


Adverse Reaction
acne vulgaris, application site reaction, atopic dermatitis, blepharedema, conjunctivitis, contact dermatitis, erythema, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, skin discoloration, skin irritation, xerosis


Local cutaneous adverse reactions may occur with adapalene therapy. Application site reactions, such as erythema, skin scaling, dryness of skin (xerosis), burning, and pruritus occur in 10% to 40% of patients using adapalene gel. Pruritus or burning immediately after application occurs in 20% of patients using adapalene gel. The frequency and severity (mild, moderate, or severe) of local cutaneous irritations were reported for patients using adapalene cream in clinical trials. Mild and moderate xerosis were reported in 42% and 9% of patients, respectively. Erythema was reported as mild in 38% of patients and moderate in 10% of patients. Mild scaling was reported in 35% of patients; moderate scaling was reported in 6% of patients. Persistent pruritus was reported as mild in 21% of patients and moderate in 4% of patients. Persistent burning or stinging was reported as mild in 24% of patients and moderate in 4% of patients. Erythema, scaling, dryness, persistent pruritus, and persistent burning or stinging were all reported as severe in less than 1% of patients. Photosensitivity (sunburn) occurred in 2% of patients using adapalene cream and in up to 1% of patients using the gel. Skin irritation and discomfort were reported rarely (up to 1%) among patients using the gel or cream. Acne vulgaris flares occur in patients receiving adapalene gel (up to 1%) and cream (less than 1%). Additional adverse events reported in less than 1% of patients using adapalene cream include dermatitis and contact dermatitis, blepharedema (eyelid edema), conjunctivitis, skin discoloration, rash, and atopic dermatitis (as eczema). Among patients receiving adapalene lotion in clinical trials, 7.7% reported dry skin, 1.5% reported skin irritation, 0.9% reported skin burning and discomfort, and 0.6% reported sunburn. For patients whose irritation scores were higher while on therapy compared to baseline, mild, moderate, and severe erythema occurred in 21.8%, 8%, and 0.2% of patients, respectively. Mild scaling occurred in 25.3% of patients; moderate and severe scaling were reported in 6.5% and 0.1% of patients, respectively. Dry skin was reported as mild in 36.1% of patients, moderate in 7.3% of patients, and severe in 0.3% of patients. Stinging or burning of the skin was reported as mild, moderate, and severe in 22.1%, 7%, and 0.9% of patients, respectively. Cases of application site pain have also been noted during postmarketing use. Additionally, in an open-label postmarketing study of 13 adolescent subjects, 8 out of 13 reported incidents of pruritus. The local cutaneous adverse reactions seen with use of adapalene are most common during the first 2 to 4 weeks of treatment, decrease in frequency and severity over time, and are reversible with discontinuation of therapy. Depending upon the severity of cutaneous adverse reactions, patients should be instructed to use moisturizer, reduce the frequency of application of adapalene, or discontinue use.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, urticaria


Anaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions, urticaria, angioedema, facial edema, blepharedema (eyelid edema), lip swelling, and pruritus have been reported during postmarketing use of adapalene. In some cases, medical treatment was required. Advise patients to stop using adapalene and seek medical attention if signs or symptoms of an allergic or hypersensitivity reaction develop.


Description

Adapalene is a topical retinoid-like drug for the treatment of mild to moderate acne vulgaris. Unlike tretinoin, adapalene is a naphtholic acid derivative and causes less skin irritation. Adapalene is more effective than tretinoin gel (0.025%) in the treatment of acne vulgaris. Adapalene is commercially available as a cream, lotion, or gel and is reported to be cosmetically appealing to most patients, according to clinical trial data. The drug was approved by the FDA June 3, 1996.

Mechanism Of Action

Adapalene binds to specific retinoic acid nuclear receptors but does not bind to the cytosolic receptor protein. Adapalene reportedly penetrates deeply into the hair follicle. As a result of its actions, adapalene modulates cell differentiation and keratinization. Adapalene also possesses potent antiinflammatory and comedolytic properties.

Pharmacokinetics

Adapalene is applied topically to the skin.  The distribution and metabolism of absorbed adapalene is unknown.  Excretion appears to be primarily by the biliary route.  

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Topical Route

Following application, absorption through human skin is low. Trace amounts (< 0.25 ng/mL) of the parent compound have been found in the plasma of acne patients after chronic topical application in controlled clinical trials.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Topical Administration
Cream/Ointment/Lotion Formulations


For topical administration only. Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use.
Administered topically in the evening before going to bed.
Instruct patient to wash face with a non-medicated soap, then apply a thin film of the cream, lotion, or gel to cover the entire face; avoid eyes, lips, and mucous membranes.
Avoid concurrent use of other potentially irritating topical products (e.g., medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers, soaps and cosmetics that have strong skin-drying effects, products with high concentrations of alcohol, astringents, spices, or lime).
Do not use waxing as a depilatory method on skin treated with adapalene.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Maximum dosage information is not available.

Elderly

Maximum dosage information is not available.

Adolescents

Maximum dosage information is not available.

Children

Safe and effective use has not been established.

Dosage Forms

Adainzoxia Gel 0.3%-2.5%-4% for Compounding

Adapalene 0.1% Topical cream

Adapalene 0.1% Topical gel

Adapalene 0.1% Topical solution

Adapalene 0.1%, Benzoyl Peroxide 2.5% Topical gel

Adapalene 0.1%, Benzoyl Peroxide 2.5% Topical pad, cleanser

Adapalene 0.3% Topical gel

Adapalene 0.3% Topical gel, Benzoyl Peroxide 2.5% Topical gel, Clindamycin Phosphate 1% Topical gel with Compounding Gel

Adapalene 0.3%, Benzoyl Peroxide 2.5% Topical gel

CVS Adapalene 0.1% Topical Gel

Differin 0.1% Topical Gel

Epiduo 0.1%-2.5% Topical Gel

GNP Adapalene 0.1% Topical Gel

Leader Adapalene 0.1% Topical Gel

NOVOCLAIR Topical Cream Compounding Kit

TRISEON 0.15g/0.5g Topical Cream Compounding Kit

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier