=== Dofetilide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 705)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Dofetilide is a class III antiarrhythmic used for the conversion and maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in atrial fibrillation/flutter.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1000 mcg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arrhythmia exacerbation, av block, bradycardia, qt prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, angioedema, cardiac arrest, cough, edema, elevated hepatic enzymes, migraine, muscle paralysis, myocardial infarction, paresthesias, stroke, syncope

In an Overdose: No clinically relevant effects were noted in hematological parameters, serum alkaline phosphatase, serum GGT, LDH, AST, ALT, total bilirubin, total protein, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, serum electrolytes (calcium, chloride, glucose... Charcoal slurry may be given as soon as possible after overdosage, but has been useful only when given within 15 minutes of dofetilide administration.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: Because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant drugs that interfere with the metabolism or renal elimination of dofetilide may increase the risk of proarrhythmias (See Drug Interactions).

Brand Names
  - Tikosyn

Dosage Forms
  - Dofetilide 125mcg Oral Capsule
  - Dofetilide 250mcg Oral capsule
  - Dofetilide 500mcg Oral capsule
  - Tikosyn 125mcg Capsule
  - Tikosyn 250mcg Capsule
  - Tikosyn 500mcg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General dosing information
Before initiating dofetilide therapy, withdraw previous antiarrhythmic therapy under careful monitoring for a minimum of 3 half-lives. Do not initiate dofetilide therapy until amiodarone serum concentrations are less than 0.3 mcg/mL (or until amiodarone has been withdrawn for 3 or more months).
To minimize the risk of proarrhythmias, persons initiated or re-initiated on dofetilide are to be placed for 3 or more days in a monitored facility with the capability for continuous electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring and the ability to perform cardiac resuscitation, should it be required.
Doses of dofetilide must be individualized according to CrCl and the QTc. Assess renal function prior to beginning therapy. Prior to administration of the first dose of dofetilide, the QTc interval must be determined using an average of 5 to 10 beats. If baseline heart rate is less than 60 beats per minute, use the QT interval. Therapy with dofetilide has not been studied in persons with heart rates less than 50 beats per minute.
If at any time a dofetilide dosage is increased, rehospitalization for 3 days is required. Previous tolerance of higher doses does not eliminate the need for rehospitalization during each dosage adjustment.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        500 mcg PO twice daily, initially. Monitor QTc or QT interval at 2 to 3 hours after each dose for a minimum of 3 days or for at least 12 hours after conversion to normal sinus rhythm, whichever is greater, and then every 3 months; adjust dose or discontinue therapy as appropriate. Guidelines include dofetilide as an option for pharmacological cardioversion of atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter as long as no contraindications to therapy exist.
    Heading
    For the treatment of atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  NOTE: Because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant drugs that interfere with the metabolism or renal elimination of dofetilide may increase the risk of proarrhythmias (See Drug Interactions).
 
Dofetilide is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to dofetilide.
 
Although previously studied for ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular tachycardia, dofetilide is only indicated for atrial fibrillation or flutter based on efficacy and safety data. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic, is proarrhythmic and may induce or worsen cardiac arrhythmias. Dofetilide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide is contraindicated in patients with congenital or acquired QT prolongation syndromes, or history of torsade de pointes. Dofetilide should not be used in patients with a baseline QT interval or QTc > 440 msec (500 msec in patients with ventricular conduction abnormalities). QT prolongation is directly related to dofetilide dose and plasma concentration. Factors which increase dofetilide plasma concentrations such as reduced creatinine clearance or certain drug interactions will increase the risk of QT prolongation and associated arrhythmias. The use of dofetilide in conjunction with other drugs that prolong the QT interval has not been studied and is generally not recommended due to the potential risk for ventricular tachycardia, including TdP and monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (see Drug Interactions). The risk of TdP can be reduced by avoiding excessive plasma dofetilide concentrations through adjustment of the initial dofetilide dose according to creatinine clearance, avoidance of potential drug interactions, and by ECG monitoring of the QT interval (see Dosage). Treatment with dofetilide must be started in a controlled setting for a minimum of three days, in a facility that can provide electrocardiographic monitoring and cardiac resuscitation. In contrast to increased mortality documented with d-sotalol (pure class III antiarrhythmic, devoid of beta-blocking properties) in high-risk post-MI patients, dofetilide has been shown to have a neutral effect on the mortality from arrhythmias post-MI and in severe CHF.
 
Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia (due to co-existing disease states or drug therapies, see Drug Interactions) may increase the potential for torsade de pointes. Potassium levels should be maintained within the normal range prior to and during the administration of dofetilide. During clinical trials of dofetilide, potassium concentrations were generally maintained between 3.6 and 4 mEq/L. Any other electrolyte imbalance should also be corrected.
 
Dofetilide is contraindicated in patients with renal failure or severe renal impairment (CrCl < 20 mL/min). Total clearance of dofetilide is decreased and plasma concentration is increased in proportion to the decline in creatinine clearance associated with renal disease. Because increases in the QT interval and the risk of ventricular arrhythmias are directly related to plasma concentrations of dofetilide, it is critical that the dose of dofetilide be adjusted based on calculated creatinine clearance (See Dosage). Patients undergoing hemodialysis (dialysis) were not included in clinical studies. It is not known whether hemodialysis removes dofetilide from plasma.
 
In clinical trials, there was no clinically significant alteration in the pharmacokinetics of dofetilide in volunteers with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A and B). After adjustment for creatinine clearance, no additional dose adjustment is required for patients with mild or moderate hepatic disease. Dofetilide should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment; data are lacking in this population.
 
Animal and human studies have not shown adverse effects of dofetilide on cardiac conduction velocity. No effect on AV nodal conduction following dofetilide was noted in normal volunteers and in patients with 1st degree AV block. There are no data on the use of dofetilide in patients with bradycardia (heart rate < 50 bpm). Patients with sick sinus syndrome or with 2nd or 3rd degree AV block were not included in Phase III clinical trials unless a functioning pacemaker were present. Dofetilide has been used safely in conjunction with pacemakers in clinical trials.
 
Dofetilide is classified by the FDA as a pregnancy risk category C drug. There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women. Therefore, dofetilide should only be administered to pregnant women when the benefits to the mother justifies the potential fetal risks.
 
It is not known whether dofetilide is excreted into breast milk. Women should be advised to discontinue breast-feeding an infant while taking dofetilide.
 
Of the total number of patients in clinical studies of dofetilide, 46% were 65 to 89 years old. No overall differences in safety, effect on QTc, or effectiveness were observed between elderly and younger patients. However, since elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care must be taken in dose selection (see Dosage).
 
As with other drugs that cause torsade de pointes, dofetilide was associated with a greater risk of torsade de pointes in females than in males. During the dofetilide clinical development program (32% were females in placebo-controlled trials), the risk of torsade de pointes (TdP) in females was approximately three times that in males. However, the incidence of ventricular arrhythmias other than TdP was similar in female patients receiving dofetilide and patients receiving placebo. Although no study specifically investigated this risk, in post-trial analyses, no increase in mortality was observed in females receiving dofetilide versus placebo.
 
The safety and effectiveness of dofetilide in children less than 18 years of age have not been established.
 
There are no known laboratory test interactions with dofetilide.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    requires a specialized care setting
    General Information
    To minimize the risk of induced arrhythmia, dofetilide initiation or re-initiation requires a specialized care setting for a minimum of 3 days, specifically a facility that can provide calculations of creatinine clearance, continuous electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring, and cardiac resuscitation as well as personnel trained in the management of serious ventricular arrhythmias. Calculation of the creatinine clearance for all individuals must precede administration of the first dofetilide dose.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation, second or third-degree AV block, sick sinus syndrome
    General Information
    Dofetilide is contraindicated in individuals with congenital long QT syndrome, acquired long QT syndromes, or baseline QT prolongation, defined as QT interval more than 440 milliseconds (500 milliseconds in individuals with ventricular conduction abnormalities). Avoid use of dofetilide in people who have other conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk.  QT prolongation is directly related to dofetilide dose and plasma concentration. Factors such as reduced creatinine clearance or certain drug interactions will increase dofetilide plasma concentration. The risk of torsade de pointes can be reduced by controlling plasma dofetilide concentrations through adjustment of the initial dose according to creatinine clearance and by electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring for excessive increases in the QT interval. Maintain potassium concentrations within the normal range prior to and during dofetilide therapy. According to the Beers Criteria, there is an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes with dofetilide use in older adults when the creatinine clearance is less than 60 mL/minute. Individuals with second or third-degree AV block or sick sinus syndrome were not included in dofetilide clinical trials unless a functioning pacemaker was present.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use dofetilide with caution in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure; dofetilide has not been studied in this population.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Dofetilide is contraindicated in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure, defined as creatinine clearance less than 20 mL/minute. The dofetilide dose must be adjusted based on creatinine clearance. Subjects undergoing dialysis were not included in dofetilide clinical trials, and appropriate dosing recommendations for this population are not known. The overall systemic clearance of dofetilide is decreased and plasma concentration is increased with decreasing creatinine clearance.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate, well-controlled studies on the use of dofetilide during human pregnancy. Use dofetilide during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential fetal risk. In animal studies, dofetilide adversely affected fetal growth and survival in rats and mice at oral doses of 2 mg/kg/day or more during organogenesis. Developmental abnormalities occurred in both species, with some findings observed in rats at doses as low as 1 mg/kg/day. No adverse effects were observed in either species at 0.5 mg/kg/day.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of dofetilide during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of dofetilide in human milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate, well-controlled studies on the use of dofetilide during human pregnancy. Use dofetilide during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential fetal risk. In animal studies, dofetilide adversely affected fetal growth and survival in rats and mice at oral doses of 2 mg/kg/day or more during organogenesis. Developmental abnormalities occurred in both species, with some findings observed in rats at doses as low as 1 mg/kg/day. No adverse effects were observed in either species at 0.5 mg/kg/day.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of dofetilide during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of dofetilide in human milk.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dolutegravir with dofetilide is contraindicated due of the potential for serious and life-threatening adverse events, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dolutegravir inhibits the renal organic cation transporter OCT2, dofetilide is eliminated via this transporter. If coadministered, the plasma concentration of dofetilide may increase. (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib and dofetilide due to the potential for increased dofetilide exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If use is necessary, monitor for dofetilide-related adverse effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation.
Adefovir: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as dofetilide, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, therefore increasing serum concentrations of either adefovir and/or these coadministered drugs.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and alfuzosin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
aMILoride: (Major) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with dofetilide since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal cationic secretion. Increased dofetilide plasma concentrations may be associated with proarrhythmias.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide. (Major) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with dofetilide since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal cationic secretion. Increased dofetilide plasma concentrations may be associated with proarrhythmias.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of amiodarone and dofetilide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase dofetilide exposure and the risk for other dofetilide-related adverse effects. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate, amiodarone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and amisulpride is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation if concomitant use is unavoidable. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and clarithromycin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Major) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs, such as amphotericin B, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of dofetilide.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Major) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs, such as amphotericin B, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of dofetilide.
Amphotericin B: (Major) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs, such as amphotericin B, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of dofetilide.
Anagrelide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and anagrelide is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during postmarketing use of anagrelide.
Apomorphine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and apomorphine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Use caution if dofetilide and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse effects, including QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. In vitro, dofetilide is a CYP3A4 substrate, although it has low affinity for this isoenzyme. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of dofetilide. Erythromycin, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increases dofetilide plasma concentrations. The AUC of a single dose of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam, increased by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5 when coadministered with a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Arimoclomol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dofetilide and arimoclomol is contraindicated. This combination may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk of dofetilide-related adverse effects including drug-induced QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide is an OCT2 substrate and arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of dofetilide and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of arsenic trioxide and dofetilide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation; discontinue or select an alternative drug that does not prolong the QT interval prior to starting arsenic trioxide therapy. If concomitant drug use is unavoidable, frequently monitor electrocardiograms. Torsade de pointes (TdP), QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with dofetilide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if dofetilide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Asenapine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and asenapine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Atazanavir: (Major) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as atazanavir, with dofetilide may decrease the metabolism of dofetilide, thereby increasing the potential for QT prolongation. Dofetilide is a Class III antiarrhythmic agent that has a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Plasma dofetilide concentrations are correlated with the risk of drug-induced proarrhythmias.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as atazanavir, with dofetilide may decrease the metabolism of dofetilide, thereby increasing the potential for QT prolongation. Dofetilide is a Class III antiarrhythmic agent that has a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Plasma dofetilide concentrations are correlated with the risk of drug-induced proarrhythmias.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with avacopan is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with dofetilide due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Beclomethasone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and bedaquiline is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs during treatment. Discontinue bedaquiline if evidence of serious ventricular arrhythmia or QTcF interval greater than 500 milliseconds. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Bedaquiline also prolongs the QT interval.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with berotralstat is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Betamethasone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Bicalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with bicalutamide is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Bicalutamide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of bictegravir and dofetilide is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dofetilide plasma concentrations and risk of serious and/or life-threatening events. Dofetilide is a substrate of OCT2 and MATE1; bictegravir is an inhibitor of these drug transporters. (Moderate) Use caution when administering dofetilide concurrently with emtricitabine as both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of bictegravir and dofetilide is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dofetilide plasma concentrations and risk of serious and/or life-threatening events. Dofetilide is a substrate of OCT2 and MATE1; bictegravir is an inhibitor of these drug transporters. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Bretylium: (Major) Withdraw bretylium at least 3 half-lives before starting dofetilide therapy.
Budesonide: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Bumetanide: (Major) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of dofetilide.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and buprenorphine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of TdP.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and buprenorphine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of TdP.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and rilpivirine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Capivasertib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with capivasertib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Capivasertib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Cardiac glycosides: (Major) Dofetilide does not affect the pharmacokinetics of digoxin; however, the concomitant administration of digoxin with dofetilide is associated with a higher occurrence of torsade de pointes.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with dofetilide due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Dofetilide is a CYP3A4 substrate that is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is also associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with dofetilide due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Chlorothiazide: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and chlorpromazine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Chlorthalidone: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Ciclesonide: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Cimetidine: (Contraindicated) Cimetidine is an inhibitor of renal cationic tubular secretion and is contraindicated with dofetilide due to the potential for increased plasma dofetilide concentrations and associated proarrhythmias. Cimetidine (400 mg PO twice daily) coadministered with dofetilide (500 mcg PO twice daily) for 7 days increased dofetilide plasma levels by 58%. Cimetidine, at over-the-counter doses of 100 mg PO twice daily, results in a 13% increase in dofetilide plasma concentrations following a single 500 mcg oral dose. Omeprazole, ranitidine, or antacids (aluminum and magnesium hydroxides) may be used as anti-ulcer therapy alternatives to cimetidine; these agents did not alter dofetilide pharmacokinetics.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of dofetilide and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with dofetilide is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of dofetilide and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and clarithromycin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and clozapine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, TdP, cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with conivaptan is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc prolongation, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes.
Corticosteroids: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Cortisone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with dofetilide due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib can cause concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with dalfopristin; quinupristin is necessary. Dalfopristin; quinupristin is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Danazol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with danazol is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and danazol is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with daridorexant is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Daridorexant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Darunavir: (Major) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as darunavir, with dofetilide may decrease the metabolism of dofetilide, thereby increasing the potential for QT prolongation. Dofetilide is a Class III antiarrhythmic agent that has a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Plasma dofetilide concentrations are correlated with the risk of drug-induced proarrhythmias.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as darunavir, with dofetilide may decrease the metabolism of dofetilide, thereby increasing the potential for QT prolongation. Dofetilide is a Class III antiarrhythmic agent that has a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Plasma dofetilide concentrations are correlated with the risk of drug-induced proarrhythmias.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as darunavir, with dofetilide may decrease the metabolism of dofetilide, thereby increasing the potential for QT prolongation. Dofetilide is a Class III antiarrhythmic agent that has a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Plasma dofetilide concentrations are correlated with the risk of drug-induced proarrhythmias. (Moderate) Use caution when administering dofetilide concurrently with emtricitabine as both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia.
Dasatinib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and dasatinib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Deflazacort: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Degarelix: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and degarelix is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Desflurane: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and halogenated anesthetics is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and deutetrabenazine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexAMETHasone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dofetilide and quinidine is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase the risk QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Class I antiarrhythmic agents, such as quinidine, should be withheld for at least 3 half-lives prior to initiating dofetilide therapy. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Digoxin: (Major) Dofetilide does not affect the pharmacokinetics of digoxin; however, the concomitant administration of digoxin with dofetilide is associated with a higher occurrence of torsade de pointes.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Diltiazem should be used with caution with dofetilide since it may increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via inhibition of CYP3A4 metabolism. This interaction may increase the potential for dofetilide-induced proarrhythmias.
Disopyramide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and disopyramide is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Class I antiarrhythmic agents, such as disopyramide, should be withheld for at least 3 half-lives prior to initiating dofetilide therapy. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Dolutegravir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dolutegravir with dofetilide is contraindicated due of the potential for serious and life-threatening adverse events, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dolutegravir inhibits the renal organic cation transporter OCT2, dofetilide is eliminated via this transporter. If coadministered, the plasma concentration of dofetilide may increase.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dolutegravir with dofetilide is contraindicated due of the potential for serious and life-threatening adverse events, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dolutegravir inhibits the renal organic cation transporter OCT2, dofetilide is eliminated via this transporter. If coadministered, the plasma concentration of dofetilide may increase. (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dolutegravir with dofetilide is contraindicated due of the potential for serious and life-threatening adverse events, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dolutegravir inhibits the renal organic cation transporter OCT2, dofetilide is eliminated via this transporter. If coadministered, the plasma concentration of dofetilide may increase. (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and rilpivirine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and donepezil is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and TdP can occur during donepezil therapy.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and donepezil is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and TdP can occur during donepezil therapy. (Major) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion (e.g., memantine) should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion. Competition for renal elimination may increase plasma concentrations of dofetilide and increase the risk of pro-arrhythmias.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with tenofovir, PMPA with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of dofetilide is recommended. (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and dofetilide is contraindicated. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce TdP and is contraindicated.
droPERidol: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and droperidol is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, use extreme caution; initiate droperidol at a low dose and increase the dose as needed to achieve the desired effect. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal.
Duvelisib: (Major) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse effects, including QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if coadministered with duvelisib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of dofetilide. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate; duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and efavirenz is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and efavirenz is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with tenofovir, PMPA with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of dofetilide is recommended. (Moderate) Use caution when administering dofetilide concurrently with emtricitabine as both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and efavirenz is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with tenofovir, PMPA with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of dofetilide is recommended. (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and eliglustat is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Elinzanetant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Use caution when administering dofetilide concurrently with emtricitabine as both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with tenofovir, PMPA with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of dofetilide is recommended. (Moderate) Use caution when administering dofetilide concurrently with emtricitabine as both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
Emtricitabine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering dofetilide concurrently with emtricitabine as both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and rilpivirine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. (Moderate) Use caution when administering dofetilide concurrently with emtricitabine as both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and rilpivirine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with tenofovir, PMPA with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of dofetilide is recommended. (Moderate) Use caution when administering dofetilide concurrently with emtricitabine as both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Use caution when administering dofetilide concurrently with emtricitabine as both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with tenofovir, PMPA with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of dofetilide is recommended. (Moderate) Use caution when administering dofetilide concurrently with emtricitabine as both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and dofetilide due to QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Encorafenib has been associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Entecavir: (Major) In the manufacturers package label for dofetilide, administration of drugs that are excreted via renal tubular secretion should be used very cautiously, if at all, with dofetilide. Entecavir is also excreted via renal tubular excretion.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with dofetilide due to the risk of QT prolongation. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
eriBULin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and eribulin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
Erythromycin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and erythromycin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Erythromycin is associated with QT prolongation and TdP. In addition, erythromycin may theoretically increase plasma concentrations of dofetilide via inhibition of CYP3A4. Higher antiarrhythmic plasma concentrations increase the potential risk of QT prolongation, TdP, or other proarrhythmias.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of dofetilide and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Major) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of dofetilide.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with everolimus is necessary. Everolimus is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Fedratinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dofetilide and fedratinib is contraindicated. This combination may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk of dofetilide-related adverse effects including drug-induced QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide is an OCT2 and CYP3A substrate; fedratinib is an OCT2 and moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dofetilide and fexinidazole is contraindicated. This combination may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk of dofetilide-related adverse effects including drug-induced QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide is an OCT2 and CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is an OCT2 and CYP3A inhibitor.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Fingolimod: (Contraindicated) Fingolimod is contraindicated in patients requiring treatment with dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic. Fingolimod treatment results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Dofetilide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Flecainide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and flecainide is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Class I antiarrhythmic agents, such as flecainide, should be withheld for at least 3 half-lives prior to initiating dofetilide therapy. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP; flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs that have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dofetilide and fluconazole is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of TdP. Additionally, fluconazole is also an inhibitor of CYP3A4, which could increase dofetilide exposure, further increasing the risk of cardiac events.
Fludrocortisone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Flunisolide: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and fluoxetine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and TdP have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. The use of dofetilide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval has not been studied and is not recommended.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation, such as dofetilide.
Fluticasone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and fluvoxamine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and TdP have also been reported during fluvoxamine postmarketing use. Additionally, fluvoxamine is also an inhibitor of CYP3A4, which could increase dofetilide exposure, further increasing the risk of cardiac events.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with fosamprenavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Foscarnet: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and foscarnet is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of foscarnet.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Fostemsavir: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and fostemsavir is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Furosemide: (Major) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of dofetilide.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and gemifloxacin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and gemtuzumab is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of dofetilide and gepotidacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate, gepotidacin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and gilteritinib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dofetilide and givinostat is contraindicated due to the risk for increased dofetilide exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide is a CYP3A and OCT2 substrate, givinostat is a CYP3A and OCT2 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with dofetilide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
Goserelin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and goserelin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and granisetron is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Clinicians should be aware that food interactions with dofetilide are possible. Grapefruit juice inhibits the cytochrome P-450 3A4 isozyme in the gut wall. Grapefruit juice contains furanocoumarins that are metabolized by CYP3A4 to reactive intermediates. These intermediates form a covalent bond to the active site of the CYP3A4 enzyme, causing irreversible inactivation (mechanism-based inhibition). Consequently, CYP3A4 activity in the gut wall is inhibited until de novo synthesis returns the enzyme to its previous level. According to the manufacturer of dofetilide, caution should be used when coadministering with grapefruit juice. Elderly patients have the greatest possibility of ingesting grapefruit and interacting medications and are the most vulnerable to the adverse clinical consequences.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and halogenated anesthetics is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and haloperidol is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and TdP have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and histrelin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Hydrocortisone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibutilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and ibutilide is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Class III antiarrhythmic agents, such as ibutilide, should be withheld for at least 3 half-lives prior to initiating dofetilide therapy. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and TdP; proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Iloperidone: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and iloperidone is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation.
Imatinib: (Major) Imatinib could significantly inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of dofetilide. The resultant increase in serum dofetilide concentrations could increase the risk of torsade de pointes.
Indapamide: (Major) Indapamide may induce hypokalemia, increasing the potential for proarrhythmic effects (e.g., torsade de pointes) of dofetilide. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of these agents. In the absence of electrolyte imbalances, these agents can be used together safely.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab with dofetilide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain ECGs and electrolytes prior to the start of treatment and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Isavuconazonium: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of isavuconazonium with dofetilide is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dofetilide exposure resulting in serious and life-threatening adverse events, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Isavuconazonium inhibits the renal organic cation transporter OCT2, and dofetilide is eliminated via this transporter.
Isoflurane: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and halogenated anesthetics is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with isoniazid is necessary. Isoniazid is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Use of dofetilide during and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of itraconazole treatment is contraindicated due to the potential elevated dofetilide concentrations and QT prolongation. Serious cardiovascular events including EKG changes (i.e., QT prolongation), cardiac arrhythmias, including ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest, and sudden death may occur when these drugs are administered together. Itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with QT prolongation. Dofetilide is a CYP3A4 substrate that is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with dofetilide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and dofetilide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of dofetilide, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Dofetilide is a substrate of OCT2 and ketoconazole is an inhibitor of this drug transporter. CYP3A4 inhibition by ketoconazole may also contribute. Coadministration with ketoconazole for 7 days has been shown to increase dofetilide AUC by 41% in males and 69% in females.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Use lacosamide with caution in patients taking concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction, such as Class III antiarrhythmics, because of the risk of AV block, bradycardia, or ventricular tachyarrhythmia. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG prior to lacosamide initiation and after treatment has been titrated to steady-state. In addition, monitor patients receiving lacosamide via the intravenous route closely.
lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with tenofovir, PMPA with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of dofetilide is recommended. (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
lamoTRIgine: (Major) Coadministration of lamotrigine and dofetilide is not recommended. Coadministration may decrease dofetilide clearance, resulting in increased plasma concentrations and the potential for serious adverse events, including QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias. Lamotrigine is an inhibitor of renal tubular secretion via organic cationic transporter 2 (OCT2) proteins, and dofetilide is excreted via this route.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and clarithromycin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Lapatinib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and lapatinib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and TdP have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with larotrectinib is necessary. Larotrectinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Lazertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with dofetilide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, ECG monitoring is recommended during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Lenvatinib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and lenvatinib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide may occur if given with letermovir; monitor patient closely for dofetilide-related adverse events. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Dofetilide is metabolized to a small degree by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Leuprolide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and leuprolide is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and dofetilide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of dofetilide, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Dofetilide is a substrate of OCT2 and ketoconazole is an inhibitor of this drug transporter. CYP3A4 inhibition by ketoconazole may also contribute. Coadministration with ketoconazole for 7 days has been shown to increase dofetilide AUC by 41% in males and 69% in females.
Lidocaine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent exposure of systemic lidocaine with dofetilide could increase the risk of dofetilide-induced proarrhythmias. Before switching from lidocaine to dofetilide therapy, lidocaine generally should be withheld for at least three half-lives prior to initiating dofetilide. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent exposure of systemic lidocaine with dofetilide could increase the risk of dofetilide-induced proarrhythmias. Before switching from lidocaine to dofetilide therapy, lidocaine generally should be withheld for at least three half-lives prior to initiating dofetilide. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent exposure of systemic lidocaine with dofetilide could increase the risk of dofetilide-induced proarrhythmias. Before switching from lidocaine to dofetilide therapy, lidocaine generally should be withheld for at least three half-lives prior to initiating dofetilide. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of lithium and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and lofexidine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate and lonarfarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmias (torsade de pointes).
Loop diuretics: (Major) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of dofetilide.
Loperamide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and loperamide is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and loperamide is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with dofetilide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). (Moderate) Concomitant use of dofetilide and ritonavir may increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) due to increased dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is metabolized to a small degree by CYP3A4; ritonavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as dofetilide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and dofetilide may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and mefloquine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation.
Megestrol: (Contraindicated) All inhibitors of renal cationic secretion, including megestrol, are contraindicated with dofetilide. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean clearance of dofetilide was 15% lower in patients receiving inhibitors of tubular organic cation transport.
Memantine: (Major) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion (e.g., memantine) should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion. Competition for renal elimination may increase plasma concentrations of dofetilide and increase the risk of pro-arrhythmias.
metFORMIN: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
Methadone: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and methadone is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and TdP, especially at higher doses (more than 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
methylPREDNISolone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
metOLazone: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mexiletine: (Contraindicated) Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Before switching from another antiarrhythmic drug to dofetilide therapy, antiarrhythmics generally should be withheld for at least three half-lives prior to initiating dofetilide. According to the manufacturer, Class I (disopyramide, encainide, flecainide, lidocaine, mexiletine, moricizine, procainamide, propafenone, quinidine, and tocainide) antiarrhythmic agents are associated with QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias and concurrent exposure with dofetilide could increase the risk of dofetilide-induced proarrhythmias.
Midostaurin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and midostaurin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider interval assessments of QT by EKG. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and mifepristone is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Mifepristone is associated with dose-related prolongation of the QT interval. Additionally, dofetilide is metabolized to a small extent by CYP3A4, and inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as mifepristone, could increase systemic dofetilide exposure, further increasing the risk for QT prolongation.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of dofetilide and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mometasone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and moxifloxacin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinolones have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory.
Nefazodone: (Major) Nefazodone may reduce the metabolism of dofetilide via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction may result in increased dofetilide plasma concentrations and risk for QTc prolongation.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as nelfinavir, with dofetilide may decrease the metabolism of dofetilide, thereby increasing the potential for QT prolongation. Dofetilide is a Class III antiarrhythmic agent that has a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Plasma dofetilide concentrations are correlated with the risk of drug-induced proarrhythmias.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Nicardipine is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Co-administration with nicardipine may lead to an increase in serum levels of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates including doeftilide.
Nilotinib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and nilotinib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Sudden death and QT interval prolongation have occurred in patients who received nilotinib therapy.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and dofetilide and consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase dofetilide exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Concomitant use of dofetilide and ritonavir may increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) due to increased dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is metabolized to a small degree by CYP3A4; ritonavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with nirogacestat is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and olanzapine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and fluoxetine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and TdP have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. The use of dofetilide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval has not been studied and is not recommended. (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and olanzapine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and olanzapine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and osilodrostat is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dofetilide with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and oxaliplatin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal TdP have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking dofetilide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Palbociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with palbociclib is necessary. Palbociclib is a weak time-dependent CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Paliperidone: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and paliperidone is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose.
Panobinostat: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and panobinostat is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat.
Pasireotide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and pasireotide is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and pazopanib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pazopanib has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Pentamidine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and pentamidine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of Systemic pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Perphenazine: (Minor) Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation, such as dofetilide.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation, such as dofetilide.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and pimavanserin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of pimozide with dofetilide is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both drugs are associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with metformin with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Reduced clearance of metformin may increase the risk for lactic acidosis; increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and dofetilide is recommended.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with pirtobrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Pirtobrutinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Pitolisant: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and pitolisant is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking dofetilide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of posaconazole with drugs that are associated with QT prolongation and are also CYP3A4 substrates, such as dofetilide, is contraindicated. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Posaconazole has also been associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
prednisoLONE: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
predniSONE: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of primaquine and dofetilide if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP and may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk for dofetilide-related adverse effects. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate, primaquine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Procainamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dofetilide and procainamide is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Class I antiarrhythmic agents, such as procainamide, should be withheld for at least 3 half-lives prior to initiating dofetilide therapy. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Procainamide is also associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Prochlorperazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dofetilide and prochlorperazine is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase the risk QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Additionally, prochlorperazine is an inhibitor of the renal cation transport system which may result in increased dofetilide exposure, further increasing the risk of cardiac-related adverse effects.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dofetilide and quinidine is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase the risk QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Class I antiarrhythmic agents, such as quinidine, should be withheld for at least 3 half-lives prior to initiating dofetilide therapy. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
quiNINE: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dofetilide and quinine is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase the risk QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of TdP.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and ranolazine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with relacorilant is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Relugolix: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and relugolix is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and relugolix is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Remdesivir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with remdesivir is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and remdesivir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and ribociclib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and ribociclib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and rilpivirine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
risperiDONE: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and risperidone is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dofetilide and ritonavir may increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) due to increased dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is metabolized to a small degree by CYP3A4; ritonavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and romidepsin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of saquinavir boosted with ritonavir with dofetilide is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure and risk of QT prolongation. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir is strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is a CYP3A4 substrate that is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and selpercatinib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration is necessary. Dofetilide exposure may be increased. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is a CYP3A4 substrate that is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Selpercatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Sevoflurane: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and halogenated anesthetics is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Siponimod: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and siponimod is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study.
Solifenacin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and solifenacin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. TdP has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality was not determined.
SORAfenib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and sorafenib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Sorafenib is associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and sotalol is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Class III antiarrhythmic agents, such as sotalol, should be withheld for at least 3 half-lives prior to initiating dofetilide therapy. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Sotalol administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Proarrhythmic events should be anticipated after initiation of therapy and after each upward dosage adjustment.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with spironolactone is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Spironolactone is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with spironolactone is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Spironolactone is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) St. John's Wort appears to induce several isoenzymes of the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, including CYP3A4, Co-administration of St. John's wort could decrease the efficacy of some medications metabolized by CYP3A4, such as dofetilide. Clinicians should observe patients closely if St. John's wort is used.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of dofetilide when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of dofetilide resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Dofetilide is a CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
Streptogramins: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with dalfopristin; quinupristin is necessary. Dalfopristin; quinupristin is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dofetilide with trimethoprim is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of dofetilide, which may cause serious ventricular arrhythmias associated with QT prolongation, including torsade de pointes (TdP). Trimethoprim is an inhibitor of the renal cation transport system and decreases the active tubular secretion of dofetilide. The combination of trimethoprim 160 mg and 800 mg sulfamethoxazole co-administered twice daily with dofetilide 500 mcg for 4 days has been shown to increase dofetilide AUC by 93% and Cmax by 103%.
SUNItinib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and sunitinib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and tacrolimus is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG and electrolytes periodically during treatment. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tacrolimus may prolong the QT interval and cause TdP.
Tafenoquine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dofetilide and tafenoquine is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dofetilide concentrations and arrhythmias (QT prolongation and torsade de pointes). The effect of coadministration of tafenoquine on the pharmacokinetics of OCT2 and MATE substrates, like dofetilide, in humans is unknown; however, in vitro observations suggest the potential for increased concentrations of OCT2 and MATE substrates. Dofetilide is eliminated by cationic renal secretion, and tafenoquine may interfere with the renal elimination of dofetilide.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and telavancin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Indapamide may induce hypokalemia, increasing the potential for proarrhythmic effects (e.g., torsade de pointes) of dofetilide. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of these agents. In the absence of electrolyte imbalances, these agents can be used together safely. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with tenofovir, PMPA with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of dofetilide is recommended.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and tetrabenazine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc).
Thiazide diuretics: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of thioridazine with dofetilide is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both drugs are associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with ticagrelor is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and ticagrelor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Tipranavir: (Major) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as tipranavir, with dofetilide may decrease the metabolism of dofetilide, thereby increasing the potential for QT prolongation. Dofetilide is a Class III antiarrhythmic agent that has a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Plasma dofetilide concentrations are correlated with the risk of drug-induced proarrhythmias.
Tolterodine: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and tolterodine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and toremifene is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Torsemide: (Major) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of dofetilide.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of verapamil (CYP3A4 inhibitor) and dofetilide is contraindicated. Coadministration of dofetilide with verapamil increased dofetilide peak plasma concentrations by 42%, although the overall exposure to dofetilide was not significantly increased. Concurrent use of verapamil and dofetilide was also associated with a higher occurrence of torsade de pointes in dofetilide clinical trials.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Treosulfan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with treosulfan is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and treosulfan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Triamcinolone: (Major) Corticosteroids can cause increases in blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and hypokalemia, predisposing patients to interactions with certain other medications. Corticosteroid-induced hypokalemia could also enhance the proarrhythmic effects of dofetilide.
Triamterene: (Major) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as triamterene, should be co-administered with caution with dofetilide since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal cationic secretion. Increased dofetilide plasma concentrations may be associated with proarrhythmias.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide. (Major) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as triamterene, should be co-administered with caution with dofetilide since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal cationic secretion. Increased dofetilide plasma concentrations may be associated with proarrhythmias.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Trifluoperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation such as dofetilide.
Trilaciclib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dofetilide and trilaciclib is contraindicated. This combination may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk of dofetilide-related adverse effects including drug-induced QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide is an OCT2 substrate; trilaciclib is an OCT2 inhibitor.
Trimethoprim: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dofetilide with trimethoprim is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of dofetilide, which may cause serious ventricular arrhythmias associated with QT prolongation, including torsade de pointes (TdP). Trimethoprim is an inhibitor of the renal cation transport system and decreases the active tubular secretion of dofetilide. The combination of trimethoprim 160 mg and 800 mg sulfamethoxazole co-administered twice daily with dofetilide 500 mcg for 4 days has been shown to increase dofetilide AUC by 93% and Cmax by 103%.
Triptorelin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and triptorelin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of dofetilide and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dofetilide and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with tucatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
Vandetanib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and vandetanib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and vemurafenib is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and dofetilide increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk for other dofetilide-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Verapamil: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of verapamil (CYP3A4 inhibitor) and dofetilide is contraindicated. Coadministration of dofetilide with verapamil increased dofetilide peak plasma concentrations by 42%, although the overall exposure to dofetilide was not significantly increased. Concurrent use of verapamil and dofetilide was also associated with a higher occurrence of torsade de pointes in dofetilide clinical trials.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Vimseltinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dofetilide and vimseltinib is contraindicated. This combination may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk of dofetilide-related adverse effects including drug-induced QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide is an OCT2 substrate; vimseltinib is an OCT2 inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Concomitant use of dofetilide and voclosporin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation with supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with vonoprazan is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with vonoprazan is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and clarithromycin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with vonoprazan is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Voriconazole: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and voriconazole is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Voriconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of TdP.
Vorinostat: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and vorinostat is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of dofetilide and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dofetilide and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Zafirlukast: (Major) Zafirlukast, a CYP 3A4 inhibitor, may increase plasma dofetilide concentrations with potential for dofetilide toxicity.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and dofetilide increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk for other dofetilide-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ziprasidone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and class III antiarrhythmics, such as dofetilide, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of ziprasidone due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of TdP in patients with multiple confounding factors. Class III antiarrhythmics are associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The risk of dofetilide-induced ventricular arrhythmia was assessed in three ways in clinical studies: 1) by description of the QT interval and its relation to the dose and plasma concentration of dofetilide, 2) by observing the frequency of TdP in dofetilide treated patients according to dose; 3) by observing the overall mortality rate in patients with atrial fibrillation and in patients with structural heart disease. The dofetilide clinical program involved approximately 8,600 patients in 130 clinical studies of normal volunteers and patients with supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias. Based on the efficacy data, dofetilide is only indicated for patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter. Dofetilide was administered to 5,194 patients, including two large, placebo-controlled mortality trials conducted by the manufacturer in 756 patients with left ventricular dysfunction (DIAMOND CHF) and 755 patients who experienced a recent MI within 3—7 days with subsequent left ventricular dysfunction (DIAMOND Ml) in which patients received dofetilide for up to three years.Serious arrhythmias and cardiac conduction disturbances may occur during dofetilide therapy. In addition, arrhythmia exacerbation may occur. In studies of patients with supraventricular arrhythmias, a total of 1346 and 677 patients received dofetilide and placebo for 551 and 207 patient years, respectively. The discontinuation rate due to adverse events was 8.7% for patients receiving dofetilide compared to 8.0% receiving placebo. The most frequent reason for discontinuation (>1%) was ventricular tachycardia (2.0% dofetilide vs 1.3% placebo). Torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT prolongation are dose-related adverse effects for dofetilide, with 0.3—0.9% experiencing TdP when treated for supraventicular arrhythmia with 250—500 mcg BID PO dofetilide compared to 10.6% incidence at doses > 500 mcg BID. In patients receiving doses greater than 500 mcg BID, the incidence of new ventricular fibrillation was 2.6%. Therefore, the manufacturer recommends a maximum dosage of 500 mcg BID. Tdp did not occur in any placebo-treated patients. The incidence of TdP in patients with supraventricular arrhythmias was 0.8%. The incidence of torsade de pointes consistently and significantly decreased in several clinical pre-marketing studies when the dosage was adjusted for renal impairment. In the supraventricular arrhythmia studies, the incidence of TdP in patients who were dosed according to the recommended dosing regimen (see Dosage) was 0.6%. The majority of the episodes of TdP occurred within the first three days of dofetilide therapy leading to the manufacturer recommendation for placing the patient in a special facility for >= 3 days to monitor and establish dofetilide dosage. In the DIAMOND CHF trial, the incidence of torsade de pointes was 3.3% in CHF patients; in the DIAMOND MI trial, the incidence of TdP was 0.9% in patients with a recent MI and subsequent left-ventricular dysfunction. In addition to the TdP type ventricular arrhythmias, other ventricular arrhythmias included ventricular fibrillation (0.3—0.4% at 250—500 mcg BID vs 0.1% for placebo) and unspecified ventricular tachycardia. AV block (0.4—1.5% vs 0.3%placebo), bundle branch block (0.1—0.5% vs 0.1% placebo) and other heart block (0.1—0.5% vs 0.1% placebo) also occurred in patients receiving dofetilide for supraventricular arrhythmias at doses of 250 to 500 mcg BID. Sinus bradycardia may also occur with dofetilide (<=2% but greater than placebo).The most frequent adverse events in patients receiving dofetilide for supraventricular arrhythmias were headache, chest pain (unspecified), and dizziness. Adverse events with a frequency greater than 2% and a frequency greater than placebo included: headache (11 dofetilide vs 9% placebo), chest pain (unspecified) (10 vs 7%), dizziness (8 vs 6%), respiratory tract infection (7 vs 5%), dyspnea (6 vs 5%), influenza syndrome (4 vs 2%), insomnia (4 vs 3%), accidental injury (3 vs 1%), back pain (3 vs 2%), procedure such as medical, surgical, or health service (3 vs 2%), diarrhea (3 vs 2%), rash (unspecified) (3 vs 2%), and abdominal pain (3 vs 2%). Adverse events reported with dofetilide at a frequency greater than 2% but no more frequent than on placebo included: angina pectoris, anxiety, arthralgia, asthenia, atrial fibrillation, procedural complications (application, injection, incision, insertion, or device), hypertension, pain, palpitations, peripheral edema, supraventricular tachycardia, sweating, urinary tract infection, ventricular tachycardia. In the DIAMOND studies of patients with left ventricular dysfunction, the adverse events other than those related to the postinfarction and heart failure population were generally similar to those seen in the supraventricular arrhythmia groups.The following adverse events have been reported with a frequency of 2% and numerically more frequently with dofetilide than placebo in patients with supraventricular arrhythmias: angioedema, bradycardia, cerebral ischemia, cerebrovascular accident (stroke), edema, facial paralysis, flaccid paralysis, cardiac arrest, increased cough, hepatic damage with elevated hepatic enzymes, migraine, myocardial infarction, paralysis, paresthesia, sudden death, and syncope. The causality for these adverse effects is unknown.In a pooled survival analysis of patients in the supraventricular arrhythmia population (with low prevalence of structural heart disease), deaths occurred in 0.9% (12/1346) of patients receiving dofetilide and 0.4% (3/677) in the placebo group. The DIAMOND CHF and MI trials examined mortality in patients with structural heart disease (ejection fraction 35%). In these large, double-blind studies, deaths occurred in 36% (541/1511) of dofetilide patients and 37% (560/1517) of placebo patients. In an analysis of 506 DIAMOND patients with atrial fibrillation/flutter at baseline, one year mortality on dofetilide was 31% vs. 32% on placebo. Because of the small number of events, an excess mortality due to dofetilide cannot be ruled out with confidence in the pooled survival analysis of placebo-controlled trials in patients with supraventricular arrhythmias. However, in two large placebo-controlled mortality studies in patients with significant heart disease (DIAMOND CHF/MI), there were no more deaths in dofetilide-treated patients than in patients given placebo. The incidences of clinically significant laboratory test abnormalities in patients treated for supraventricular arrhythmias were similar for patients on dofetilide versus placebo. No clinically relevant effects were noted in hematological parameters, serum alkaline phosphatase, serum GGT, LDH, AST, ALT, total bilirubin, total protein, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, serum electrolytes (calcium, chloride, glucose, magnesium, potassium, sodium) or creatinine kinase.The most prominent manifestation of overdosage is likely to be excessive prolongation of the QT interval; ECG monitoring should be initiated in these cases. Charcoal slurry may be given as soon as possible after overdosage, but has been useful only when given within 15 minutes of dofetilide administration. Treatment of torsade de pointes (TdP) may include administration of isoproterenol infusion, with or without cardiac pacing. Administration of IV magnesium sulfate may also be effective in the management of TdP. ECG monitoring should continue until the QT interval returns to normal values. Dofetilide overdose was rare in clinical studies (two reported cases). One patient received 28 capsules, was treated with gastric aspiration 30 minutes later, and experienced no events. The other patient inadvertently received two 500 mcg doses one hour apart and experienced ventricular fibrillation and cardiac arrest 2 hours after the second dose.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    The risk of dofetilide-induced ventricular arrhythmia was assessed in three ways in clinical studies: 1) by description of the QT interval and its relation to the dose and plasma concentration of dofetilide, 2) by observing the frequency of TdP in dofetilide treated patients according to dose; 3) by observing the overall mortality rate in patients with atrial fibrillation and in patients with structural heart disease. The dofetilide clinical program involved approximately 8,600 patients in 130 clinical studies of normal volunteers and patients with supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias. Based on the efficacy data, dofetilide is only indicated for patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter. Dofetilide was administered to 5,194 patients, including two large, placebo-controlled mortality trials conducted by the manufacturer in 756 patients with left ventricular dysfunction (DIAMOND CHF) and 755 patients who experienced a recent MI within 3—7 days with subsequent left ventricular dysfunction (DIAMOND Ml) in which patients received dofetilide for up to three years. 
 
In a pooled survival analysis of patients in the supraventricular arrhythmia population (with low prevalence of structural heart disease), deaths occurred in 0.9% (12/1346) of patients receiving dofetilide and 0.4% (3/677) in the placebo group. The DIAMOND CHF and MI trials examined mortality in patients with structural heart disease (ejection fraction 35%) . In these large, double-blind studies, deaths occurred in 36% (541/1511) of dofetilide patients and 37% (560/1517) of placebo patients. In an analysis of 506 DIAMOND patients with atrial fibrillation/flutter at baseline, one year mortality on dofetilide was 31% vs. 32% on placebo. Because of the small number of events, an excess mortality due to dofetilide cannot be ruled out with confidence in the pooled survival analysis of placebo-controlled trials in patients with supraventricular arrhythmias. However, in two large placebo-controlled mortality studies in patients with significant heart disease (DIAMOND CHF/MI), there were no more deaths in dofetilide-treated patients than in patients given placebo.
 
The incidences of clinically significant laboratory test abnormalities in patients treated for supraventricular arrhythmias were similar for patients on dofetilide versus placebo. No clinically relevant effects were noted in hematological parameters, serum alkaline phosphatase, serum GGT, LDH, AST, ALT, total bilirubin, total protein, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, serum electrolytes (calcium, chloride, glucose, magnesium, potassium, sodium) or creatinine kinase.
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, AV block, bradycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    Serious arrhythmias and cardiac conduction disturbances may occur during dofetilide therapy. In addition, arrhythmia exacerbation may occur. In studies of patients with supraventricular arrhythmias, a total of 1,346 and 677 patients received dofetilide and placebo for 551 and 207 patient years, respectively. The discontinuation rate due to adverse events was 8.7% for patients receiving dofetilide compared to 8.0% receiving placebo. The most frequent reason for discontinuation (more than 1%) was ventricular tachycardia (2% dofetilide vs. 1.3% placebo). Torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT prolongation are dose-related adverse effects for dofetilide, with 0.3% to 0.9% experiencing TdP when treated for supraventricular arrhythmia with 250 to 500 mcg twice daily PO dofetilide compared to 10.5% incidence at doses more than 500 mcg twice daily. In patients receiving doses more than 500 mcg twice daily, the incidence of new ventricular fibrillation was 2.6%. Therefore, the manufacturer recommends a maximum dosage of 500 mcg twice daily. TdP did not occur in any placebo-treated patients. The incidence of TdP consistently and significantly decreased in several clinical premarketing studies when the dosage was adjusted for renal impairment. In the supraventricular arrhythmia studies, the incidence of TdP in patients who were dosed according to the recommended dosing regimen was 0.6%. The majority of the episodes of TdP occurred within the first 3 days of dofetilide therapy leading to the recommendation for placing the patient in a special facility for 3 days or more to monitor and establish dofetilide dosage. In the DIAMOND CHF trial, the incidence of TdP was 3.3% in CHF patients; in the DIAMOND MI trial, the incidence of TdP was 0.9% in patients with a recent MI and subsequent left-ventricular dysfunction. In addition to the TdP type ventricular arrhythmias, other ventricular arrhythmias included ventricular fibrillation (0.3% to 0.4% at 250 to 500 mcg twice daily vs. 0.1% for placebo) and unspecified ventricular tachycardia (2.6% to 3.3% at 250 to 500 mcg twice daily vs. 2.5% for placebo). AV block (0.4% to 1.5% vs. 0.3% placebo), bundle branch block (0.1% to 0.5% vs. 0.1% placebo) and other heart block (0.1% to 0.5% vs. 0.1% placebo) also occurred in patients receiving dofetilide for supraventricular arrhythmias at doses of 250 to 500 mcg twice daily. Sinus bradycardia may also occur with dofetilide (2% or less but greater than placebo).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      AV block
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      torsade de pointes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angioedema, cardiac arrest, cough, edema, elevated hepatic enzymes, migraine, muscle paralysis, myocardial infarction, paresthesias, stroke, syncope
    General Information
    The following adverse events have been reported with a frequency of <= 2% and numerically more frequently with dofetilide than placebo in patients with supraventricular arrhythmias: angioedema, cerebral ischemia, cerebrovascular accident (stroke), edema, muscle paralysis, facial paralysis, flaccid paralysis, cardiac arrest, increased cough, hepatic damage with elevated hepatic enzymes, migraine, myocardial infarction, paresthesias, sudden death, and syncope. The causality for these adverse effects is unknown.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle paralysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, angina, anxiety, arthralgia, asthenia, back pain, chest pain (unspecified), diaphoresis, diarrhea, dizziness, dyspnea, headache, hypertension, infection, influenza, insomnia, nausea, palpitations, peripheral edema, rash (unspecified)
    General Information
    The most frequent adverse events in patients receiving dofetilide for supraventricular arrhythmias were headache, chest pain (unspecified), and dizziness. Adverse events with a frequency greater than 2% and a frequency greater than placebo included: headache (11% dofetilide vs 9% placebo), chest pain (unspecified) (10% vs 7%), dizziness (8% vs 6%), respiratory tract infection (7% vs 5%), dyspnea (6% vs 5%), nausea (5% vs 4%), influenza syndrome (4% vs 2%), insomnia (4% vs 3%), accidental injury (3% vs 1%), back pain (3% vs 2%), procedure such as medical, surgical, or health service (3% vs 2%), diarrhea (3% vs 2%), rash (unspecified) (3% vs 2%), and abdominal pain (3% vs 2%). Adverse events reported with dofetilide at a frequency greater than 2% but no more frequent than on placebo included: angina pectoris, anxiety, arthralgia, asthenia, atrial fibrillation, procedural complications (application, injection, incision, insertion, or device), hypertension, pain, palpitations, peripheral edema, supraventricular tachycardia, diaphoresis, urinary tract infection, ventricular tachycardia. In the DIAMOND studies of patients with left ventricular dysfunction, the adverse events other than those related to the postinfarction and heart failure population were generally similar to those seen in the supraventricular arrhythmia groups.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      diaphoresis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From

Description
  Text
  Dofetilide is a class III antiarrhythmic used for the conversion and maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in atrial fibrillation/flutter. It should be reserved for highly symptomatic patients. Although studied in ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, dofetilide is primarily effective for supraventricular arrhythmias. Dofetilide results in selective and potent blockade of potassium channels and thereby prolongs ventricular refractoriness (i.e., widens the QT interval), the action potential duration, and the effective refractory period; it does not affect the ventricular conduction time. Dofetilide has negative chronotropic effects but lacks negative inotropic properties. Dofetilide is more potent and a more 'pure' Class III agent than sotalol; exhibits less organ toxicity than amiodarone; and is not associated with negative inotropic effects which occurs with amiodarone and sotalol. In contrast to increased mortality documented with d-sotalol (pure class III antiarrhythmic, devoid of beta-blocking properties) in high-risk post-MI patients, dofetilide has been shown to have a neutral effect on the mortality from arrhythmias post-MI and in severe CHF. In this population, dofetilide effectively converts atrial fibrillation, prevents its recurrence and reduces the risk of hospitalization for worsening heart failure. Drugs that inhibit dofetilide metabolism or renal elimination may increase the risk of dofetilide-induced proarrhythmias. In addition, dofetilide should not be coadministered with drugs associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. Dofetilide was approved by the FDA in October 1999.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Dofetilide is an antiarrhythmic drug with Vaughn Williams Class III (cardiac action potential duration prolonging) properties. The specific mechanism of action is selective blockade of the cardiac ion channel which carries the rapid component of the delayed rectifier potassium current; dofetilide does not block the other repolarizing potassium currents. Due to selective and potent blockade of potassium channels, dofetilide prolongs ventricular refractoriness (i.e., widens the QT interval); prolongs the action potential duration; prolongs the effective refractory period; and does not affect ventricular conduction time. Doefetilide does not affect calcium channels. At clinically relevant concentrations, dofetilide has no effect on sodium channels (associated with Class I effect), adrenergic alpha-receptors, or adrenergic beta-receptors. Dofetilide increases the monophasic action potential duration in a predictable, concentration-dependent manner, primarily due to delayed repolarization. This effect, and the related increase in effective refractory period, is observed in the atria and ventricles in electrophysiology studies. The increase in QT interval observed on the ECG is a result of prolongation of both effective and functional refractory periods in the His-Purkinje system and the ventricles.
 
Dofetilide did not influence cardiac conduction velocity and sinus node function in a variety of studies in patients with or without structural heart disease. This is consistent with a lack of effect of dofetilide on the PR interval and QRS width in patients with pre-existing heart block and/or sick sinus syndrome.
 
Dofetilide terminates induced re-entrant tachyarrhythmias (e.g. atrial fibrillation/flutter and ventricular tachycardia) and prevents their re-induction. Dofetilide does not increase the electrical energy required to convert electrically-induced ventricular fibrillation, and it significantly reduces the defibrillation threshold in patients with ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation undergoing implantation of a cardioverter-defibrillator device.
 
In hemodynamic studies, dofetilide had no effect on cardiac output, cardiac index, stroke volume index, or systemic vascular resistance in patients with ventricular tachycardia, mild to moderate congestive heart failure or angina and either normal or low left ventricular ejection fraction. There was no evidence of a negative inotropic effect related to dofetilide therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation. There was no increase in heart failure in patients with significant left ventricular dysfunction. Generally, dofetilide does not affect blood pressure; however it may reduce heart rate by about 4-6 beats per minute.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The oral bioavailability of dofetilide is greater than 90% with maximal plasma concentrations occurring in about 2 to 3 hours in fasted patients. The oral bioavailability is unaffected by food or antacids. Dofetilide plasma concentrations are linearly related to drug dosage.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    There was no clinically significant alteration in the pharmacokinetics of dofetilide in volunteers with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A and B) compared to healthy volunteers. Patients with severe hepatic impairment have not been studied.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Dofetilide clearance decreases with declining creatinine clearance, resulting in a prolonged half life and accumulation of dofetilide in patients with renal impairment.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    After correction for renal function, clearance of dofetilide is not related to age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    After correction for renal function, clearance of dofetilide is not related to age, but is significantly dependent on sex. Women have approximately 12% to 18% lower dofetilide clearance than men, after correction for weight and creatinine clearance. In males and females, renal function is the single most important factor influencing dofetilide clearance.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Cardiac disease
Increases in the QT interval and the risk of ventricular arrhythmias are directly related to dofetilide plasma concentrations. Drug dosage must be based on calculated creatinine clearance. The pharmacokinetics of dofetilide in patients with supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias, ischemic heart disease, or congestive heart failure are similar to those of healthy volunteers, after adjusting for renal function.
  Text
  Dofetilide is administered orally. The terminal half-life is approximately 10 hours, and steady state plasma concentrations are attained within 2 to 3 days. Plasma protein binding is 60% to 70%, and is independent of plasma concentration and renal function. The volume of distribution is about 3 L/kg. Metabolites are formed by N-dealkylation and N-oxidation. There are no quantifiable metabolites circulating in plasma, but five metabolites have been identified in the urine. In vitro studies with human hepatic microsomes show that dofetilide is metabolized to some extent by CYP3A4, although it has a low affinity for this isoenzyme. Approximately 80% of a single dose is excreted in urine, of which approximately 80% is excreted as unchanged dofetilide and the remaining 20% consists of inactive or minimally active metabolites. Renal elimination involves both glomerular filtration as well as active tubular secretion via the cation transport system, a process that can be inhibited by cimetidine and ketoconazole. Use is contraindicated for renal cation transport inhibitors.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP3A4
Dofetilide is a substrate of CYP3A4, although it has a low affinity for this enzyme. Erythromycin, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increases dofetilide plasma concentrations. Dofetilide does not inhibit CYP3A4 or other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section. 
 
WARNING: DOSING OF DOFETILIDE MUST BE DONE VERY CAREFULLY. DOFETILIDE CAN CAUSE SERIOUS CARDIAC ARRHYTHMIAS, PARTICULARLY, VENTRICULAR TACHYCARDIA OF THE TORSADES DE POINTES TYPE. ECG AND RENAL FUNCTION MUST BE ASSESSED PRIOR TO BEGINNING THERAPY. CLINICIANS WHO ARE UNFAMILIAR WITH THE USE OF THIS DRUG SHOULD READ THE FOLLOWING NOTES.
 
NOTE: To minimize the risk of proarrhythmias, patients initiated or re-initiated on dofetilide should be placed for 3 or more days in a monitored facility with the capacity to monitor continuous ECG and CrCl and perform cardiac resuscitation. Hypokalemia should be corrected before initiation of therapy.
 
NOTE: Patients with atrial fibrillation should be anticoagulated prior to electrical or pharmacological cardioversion. Anticoagulant therapy may be continued after cardioversion for the treatment of patients with atrial fibrillation.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer with or without food.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1000 mcg/day PO.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    1000 mcg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed for persons with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Use dofetilide with caution in persons with severe hepatic impairment; data are lacking in this population.
  Renal Impairment
  NOTE: Dosage adjustments based on determinations of renal function are critically important. Use actual body weight in the Cockcroft-Gault equation to calculate creatinine clearance.
CrCl more than 60 mL/minute: 500 mcg PO twice daily.
CrCl 40 to 60 mL/minute: 250 mcg PO twice daily.
CrCl 20 to 39 mL/minute: 125 mcg PO twice daily.
CrCl less 20 mL/minute: Use is contraindicated.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Use is contraindicated in persons with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 20 mL/minute). It is not known if hemodialysis removes dofetilide from plasma.
