=== Tirofiban (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 818)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Tirofiban is a synthetic non-peptide platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor approved for rate reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 25 mcg/kg IV bolus followed by 0.15 mcg/kg/minute for up to 18 hours.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bleeding, hematemesis, hematuria, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, retroperitoneal bleeding

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Inhibition of platelet aggregation by tirofiban increases the risk of bleeding, especially in patients with predisposing conditions. Tirofiban is contraindicated in patients with any of the following: acute pericarditis, intracranial aneurysm, intracranial mass, arteriovenous malformation, any...

Brand Names
  - Aggrastat

Dosage Forms
  - Aggrastat 250mcg/ml Premixed Solution for Injection
  - Aggrastat 50mcg/ml Premixed Solution for Injection
  - Tirofiban Hydrochloride 50mcg/1mL Solution for injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        25 mcg/kg IV bolus, followed by 0.15 mcg/kg/minute for up to 18 hours. Guidelines support GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors at the time of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for persons with unstable angina (UA) and NSTEMI with intermediate/high-risk features (e.g., positive troponin) treated with early invasive strategy and dual antiplatelet therapy; a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor may be considered as part of initial antiplatelet therapy, and tirofiban is a preferred option. This regimen is also recommended at the time of PCI for UA/NSTEMI with high-risk features (e.g., elevated troponin) who are receiving unfractionated heparin (UFH), not treated with bivalirudin, not adequately pretreated with ticagrelor, and regardless of clopidogrel pretreatment. For persons referred for coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG), discontinue tirofiban at least 2 to 4 hours prior to surgery.
    Heading
    For the treatment of non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes, including acute myocardial infarction, NSTEMI and unstable angina, to reduce the rate of thrombotic cardiovascular events (combined endpoint of death, myocardial infarction, or refractory ischemia/repeat cardiac procedure)
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        25 mcg/kg IV bolus, followed by 0.15 mcg/kg/minute for up to 18 to 24 hours. Guidelines support the adjunctive use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors at the time of primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in select patients with STEMI (i.e., large thrombus burden or inadequate P2Y12 receptor antagonist loading) who are receiving unfractionated heparin (UFH) and treated with or without clopidogrel or stenting. Discontinue tirofiban at least 2 to 4 hours prior to urgent coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG).
    Heading
    For the treatment of acute myocardial infarction, STEMI† to reduce the rate of thrombotic cardiovascular events
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        25 mcg/kg IV within 5 minutes followed by 0.15 mcg/kg/minute for 18 to 48 hours. Clinical practice guidelines support the adjunctive use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors at the time of elective percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients with stable ischemic heart disease who are receiving unfractionated heparin (UFH) and treated with or without clopidogrel or stenting.
    Heading
    To reduce the rate of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with stable coronary artery disease†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Inhibition of platelet aggregation by tirofiban increases the risk of bleeding, especially in patients with predisposing conditions. Tirofiban is contraindicated in patients with any of the following: acute pericarditis, intracranial aneurysm, intracranial mass, arteriovenous malformation, any coagulopathy or history of bleeding diathesis within 30 days, severe uncontrolled hypertension (SBP > 180 mmHg and/or DBP > 110 mmHg), recent (within 6 weeks) major surgery or trauma, history of stroke within 30 days or any history of hemorrhagic stroke, intracranial bleeding, aortic dissection, or any evidence of active abnormal bleeding within the previous 30 days. If serious bleeding occurs that cannot be controlled with pressure, tirofiban and any concomitant heparin should be discontinued. The risk of bleeding with tirofiban in the setting of PCI can be reduced if the following precautions are taken: discontinuation of heparin immediately upon completion of the procedure, adherence to strict anticoagulation guidelines, early femoral arterial sheath removal (i.e., within 6 hours of the intervention if the aPTT is < 45 seconds or the ACT is < 180 seconds and heparin has been discontinued for at least 3—4 hours) followed by at least 30 minutes of pressure to the femoral artery, and careful patient and access site management. While the vascular sheath is in place, patients should be maintained on complete bed rest with the head of the bed elevated 30 degrees and the affected limb restrained in a straight position. Sheath hemostasis should be achieved at least 4 hours before hospital discharge. Venipuncture, arterial puncture, intramuscular injections, spinal or epidural procedures (e.g., spinal anesthesia, epidural anesthesia or lumbar puncture), use of urinary catheters, nasogastric tubes, and nasotracheal intubation should be minimized. When obtaining IV access, noncompressible sites (e.g., subclavian or jugular veins) should be avoided. During therapy with tirofiban, hemoglobin and hematocrit should be monitored prior to treatment, within 6 hours following the loading infusion, and at least daily thereafter, or more frequently if there is evidence of significant decline.
 
Bleeding risk may be increased in patients receiving tirofiban concomitantly with heparin, other anticoagulant therapy, or thrombolytic therapy. The concomitant use of another parenteral GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors is contraindicated with tirofiban therapy. In clinical trials, most patients received concomitant aspirin and heparin during tirofiban therapy. Potentially life-threatening bleeding may occur when heparin is administered with GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists such as tirofiban. While administering tirofiban and heparin, the aPTT should be checked at baseline, 6 hours after the start of the heparin infusion, and repeated as needed to monitor heparin therapy. Heparin should be adjusted to maintain the aPTT approximately 2-times control. If serious bleeding occurs that cannot be controlled with pressure, tirofiban and any concomitant heparin should be discontinued. In patients receiving thrombolytics, the risk of major bleeding due to concomitant use of tirofiban should be weighed against the anticipated benefits.
 
Tirofiban is contraindicated in patients with thrombocytopenia (i.e., platelet count < 100,000/mm3) following prior administration of tirofiban. The drug should be used with caution in patients with a baseline platelet count < 150,000/mm3. During therapy with tirofiban, the platelet count should be monitored prior to treatment, within 6 hours following the loading infusion, and at least daily thereafter. If the patient experiences a decrease in platelet count to < 90,000/mm3, additional platelet counts should be performed to exclude pseudothrombocytopenia. If thrombocytopenia is confirmed, tirofiban and heparin should be discontinued and the condition appropriately monitored and treated. Platelet transfusions should be considered if the platelet count drops below 50,000/mm3.
 
In clinical studies with tirofiban, 42.8% of patients were 65 years and over, while 11.7% were 75 years and over. The incidence of bleeding complications was higher in the elderly compared with younger patients in both placebo and tirofiban groups. However, the incremental risk of bleeding in patients treated with tirofiban in combination with heparin compared to the risk in patients treated with heparin alone was similar regardless of age. No dose adjustment is recommended for the elderly population.
 
Tirofiban should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment or renal disease. The clearance of tirofiban is decreased in patients with severe renal impairment or renal failure (CrCl < 30 ml/min); the dosage of tirofiban should be reduced in these patients (see Dosage). Tirofiban should also be used with caution in patients receiving dialysis (hemodialysis).
 
Tirofiban is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category B. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Tirofiban has been shown to cross the placenta in pregnant rats and rabbits. Teratology studies performed in pregnant rats and rabbits (using 5—13 times the recommended maximum human dose of tirofiban on a BSA basis) revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus. However, it is recommended that tirofiban not be used during pregnancy unless clearly needed.
 
It is not known if tirofiban is excreted in human milk. However, significant levels of tirofiban were shown to be present in rat milk. Because of the potential for adverse effects on the nursing infant, a decision should be made to discontinue breast-feeding or discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.
 
The safety and effectiveness of tirofiban have not been established in children < 18 years old.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use
    General Information
    Tirofiban is contraindicated in individuals with a history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use, specifically thrombocytopenia after prior exposure to tirofiban. Previous exposure to a glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa receptor antagonist may increase the risk of developing thrombocytopenia.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Tirofiban dosage reduction is required in individuals with renal impairment or renal failure (CrCl 60 mL/minute or less). Individuals with moderate to severe renal insufficiency have decreased plasma clearance of tirofiban.
    Headline
    arterial puncture, bleeding, bleeding disorder, intramuscular injections, major surgery, nasotracheal intubation, trauma, venipuncture
    General Information
    Tirofiban is contraindicated in individuals with active internal bleeding, history of bleeding disorder, or major surgery or severe physical trauma within the previous month. Minimize the use of traumatic or potentially traumatic procedures such as arterial puncture, venipuncture, intramuscular injections, or nasotracheal intubation.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Although not definitive, published case reports have not established an association with tirofiban use during pregnancy and major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. Untreated myocardial infarction can be fatal to the pregnant individual and fetus. Animal studies with tirofiban at intravenous doses up to 5 and 13 times the maximum recommended daily human dose for rat and rabbit, respectively, when compared on a body surface area basis, have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use tirofiban with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of tirofiban in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Tirofiban is present in rat milk. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Although not definitive, published case reports have not established an association with tirofiban use during pregnancy and major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. Untreated myocardial infarction can be fatal to the pregnant individual and fetus. Animal studies with tirofiban at intravenous doses up to 5 and 13 times the maximum recommended daily human dose for rat and rabbit, respectively, when compared on a body surface area basis, have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use tirofiban with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of tirofiban in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Tirofiban is present in rat milk. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
ADP receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Concomitant use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (i.e., abciximab, eptifibatide, or tirofiban) with an ADP receptor antagonist (i.e., clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine) may increase the risk for bleeding.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Minor) Patients who receive omeprazole concomitantly with tirofiban may have a higher rate of tirofiban clearance than patients who do not receive omeprazole. The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tirofiban and other agents that effect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Antithymocyte Globulin: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Apixaban: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Because dipyridamole is a platelet inhibitor, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if dipyridamole is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors including abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban. (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy. (Minor) Patients who receive omeprazole concomitantly with tirofiban may have a higher rate of tirofiban clearance than patients who do not receive omeprazole. The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) When used as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), bivalirudin is intended for use with aspirin (300 to 325 mg/day PO) and has been studied only in patients receiving concomitant aspirin. Generally, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (other than aspirin). In clinical trials in patients undergoing PTCA, patients receiving bivalirudin with heparin, warfarin, or thrombolytics had increased risks of major bleeding events compared to those receiving bivalirudin alone. According to the manufacturer, the safety and effectiveness of bivalirudin have not been established when used in conjunction with platelet inhibitors other than aspirin. However, bivalirudin has been safely used as an alternative to heparin in combination with provisional use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors during angioplasty (REPLACE-2). In addition, two major clinical trials have evaluated the use of bivalirudin in patients receiving streptokinase following acute myocardial infarction (HERO-1, HERO-2). Based on the these trials, bivalirudin may be considered an alternative to heparin therapy for use in combination with streptokinase for ST-elevation MI. Bivalirudin has not been sufficiently studied in combination with other more specific thrombolytics.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and platelet inhibitors when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if cilostazol is given with other agent that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors including abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as tirofiban. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Cladribine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Concomitant use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (i.e., abciximab, eptifibatide, or tirofiban) with an ADP receptor antagonist (i.e., clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine) may increase the risk for bleeding.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking platelet inhibitors is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking a platelet inhibitor within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tirofiban and other agents that affect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tirofiban and other agents that effect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like platelet inhibitors is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue antithrombotic agents prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Deoxycholic Acid: (Moderate) Use deoxycholic acid with caution in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Excessive bruising or bleeding may occur in and around the treatment area.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as desvenlafaxine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as tirofiban. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Because dipyridamole is a platelet inhibitor, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if dipyridamole is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors including abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as duloxetine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as tirofiban. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Edoxaban: (Major) Coadministration of edoxaban and platelet inhibitors should be avoided due to an increased risk of bleeding during concurrent use. Occasionally, short-term coadministration may be necessary in patients transitioning to and from edoxaban. Long-term coadminstration is not recommended. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss in patients on concomitant therapy.
Enoxaparin: (Major) Whenever possible, discontinue agents which may enhance the risk of hemorrhage, including tirofiban, before initiation of enoxaparin therapy. If coadministration is essential, conduct close clinical and laboratory monitoring.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as tirofiban. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with other platelet inhibitors. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Fludarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as tirofiban. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as tirofiban. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tirofiban and other agents that effect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Use together with caution. Garlic produces clinically significant antiplatelet effects, and a risk for bleeding may occur if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with garlic.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) Ginger inhibits thromboxane synthetase, a platelet aggregation inducer, and is a prostacyclin agonist so additive bleeding may occur if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with ginger, zingiber officinale.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and platelet inhibitors as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals. It is possible that the use of green tea may increase the risk of bleeding if co administered with aspirin. Caution and careful monitoring of clinical and/or laboratory parameters are warranted with this combination.
Heparin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tirofiban and other agents that effect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, other platelet inhibitors, NSAIDs, and thrombolytic agents, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. In clinical trials with tirofiban, many patients received aspirin and heparin concomitantly. In these studies, the combination of tirofiban with heparin and aspirin has been associated with an increase in bleeding compared to heparin and aspirin alone. While administering tirofiban and heparin, the aPTT should be checked 6 hours after the start of the heparin infusion; heparin should be adjusted to maintain the aPTT approximately 2-times control. No information is available about the concomitant use of tirofiban with thrombolytic agents.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with platelet function such as platelet inhibitors; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with platelet inhibitors is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ibrutinib and antiplatelet agents such as tirofiban may increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients for signs of bleeding. Severe bleeding events have occurred with ibrutinib therapy including intracranial hemorrhage, GI bleeding, hematuria, and post procedural hemorrhage; some events were fatal. The mechanism for bleeding with ibrutinib therapy is not well understood.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Icosapent ethyl is an ethyl ester of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Because omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when icosapent ethyl is used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 36 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant icosapent ethyl therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors due to the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with other platelet inhibitors. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Levothyroxine: (Minor) Data from the PRISM study, indicate that patients who received levothyroxine or omeprazole concomitantly with tirofiban had a higher rate of tirofiban clearance than patients who did not receive levothyroxine or omeprazole. The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Minor) Data from the PRISM study, indicate that patients who received levothyroxine or omeprazole concomitantly with tirofiban had a higher rate of tirofiban clearance than patients who did not receive levothyroxine or omeprazole. The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of milnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Platelet Inhibitors inhibit platelet aggregation and should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia, as mycophenolate can also cause thrombocytopenia.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Nelarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Obinutuzumab: (Moderate) Fatal hemorrhagic events have been reported in patients treated with obinutuzumab; all events occured during cycle 1. Monitor all patients for thrombocytopenia and bleeding, and consider withholding concomitant medications which may increase bleeding risk (i.e., anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors), especially during the first cycle.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as tirofiban. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Omeprazole: (Minor) Patients who receive omeprazole concomitantly with tirofiban may have a higher rate of tirofiban clearance than patients who do not receive omeprazole. The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Minor) Patients who receive omeprazole concomitantly with tirofiban may have a higher rate of tirofiban clearance than patients who do not receive omeprazole. The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Patients who receive omeprazole concomitantly with tirofiban may have a higher rate of tirofiban clearance than patients who do not receive omeprazole. The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as tirofiban. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tirofiban and other agents that effect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Pentostatin: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) A potential additive risk for bleeding exists if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as pentoxifylline.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Concomitant use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (i.e., abciximab, eptifibatide, or tirofiban) with an ADP receptor antagonist (i.e., clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine) may increase the risk for bleeding.
Purine analogs: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of platelet inhibitors such as clopidogrel with rivaroxaban unless the benefit outweighs the risk of increased bleeding. An increase in bleeding time to 45 minutes was observed in two drug interaction studies where clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg daily maintenance dose) and rivaroxaban (15 mg single dose) were coadministered in healthy subjects. In the first study, the increase in bleeding time to 45 minutes was observed in approximately 45% of patients. Approximately 30% of patients in the second study had the event. The change in bleeding time was approximately twice the maximum increase seen with either drug alone. No change in the pharmacokinetic parameters of either drug were noted.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as tirofiban. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Selumetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of platelet inhibitors and selumetinib oral capsules. Selumetinib capsules contain vitamin E which may inhibit platelet aggregation and increase the risk for bleeding. Vitamin E content varies by capsule: each 10 mg capsule contains 32 mg alpha-tocopherol, each 25 mg capsule contains 36 mg alpha-tocopherol. Tolerable Upper Intake Levels of vitamin E vary by age and range from 200 to 1,000 mg alpha-tocopherol per day.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as tirofiban. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (i.e., abciximab, eptifibatide, or tirofiban) with an ADP receptor antagonist (i.e., clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine) may increase the risk for bleeding.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Caution should be used when administering tipranavir to patients receiving platelet inhibitors. In clinical trials, there have been reports of intracranial bleeding, including fatalities, in HIV infected patients receiving tipranavir as part of combination antiretroviral therapy. In many of these reports, the patients had other medical conditions (CNS lesions, head trauma, recent neurosurgery, coagulopathy, hypertension, or alcoholism/alcohol abuse) or were receiving concomitant medications, including platelet inhibitors, that may have caused or contributed to these events.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as venlafaxine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as tirofiban. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with platelet inhibitors is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease platelet aggregation could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with salicylates or other platelet inhibitors and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors).
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tirofiban and other agents that effect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Bleeding, secondary to drug-induced platelet dysfunction, is the most common adverse event associated with use of tirofiban. Fatal bleeding events have been reported, especially during concurrent heparin and tirofiban therapy. The aPTT should be monitored closely to adjust heparin therapy during co-administration. Major bleeding associated with tirofiban has included intracranial bleeding, cardiac tamponade, retroperitoneal bleeding, hemopericardium, spinal-epidural hematoma, and pulmonary (alveolar) hemorrhage or a severe decrease in hemoglobin (Hgb) of > 5 g/dl. Minor bleeding events include spontaneous gross hematuria, spontaneous hematemesis, observed blood loss with a Hgb decrease of more than 3 g/dl, or a decrease in Hgb of at least 4 g/dl without an identified bleeding site. In the PRISM-PLUS study, major bleeding occurred in 1.4% of patients (n=1570) treated with tirofiban plus heparin and in 0.8% of patients in the heparin control group; minor bleeding occurred in 10.5% and 8% of patients, respectively. In the RESTORE study, major bleeding occurred in 2.2% of patients (n=2141) in the tirofiban group and 1.6% of patients in the placebo group; minor bleeding occurred in 12% and 6.3% of patients, respectively (all patients received heparin during the PCI procedure). The incidence of intracranial bleeding in the RESTORE study was 0.1% for tirofiban in combination with heparin and 0.3% for the heparin control group; there were no reports of intracranial bleeding in the PRISM-PLUS study. In the PRISM-PLUS and RESTORE studies, the incidence of retroperitoneal bleeding was similar for the treatment and placebo groups, 0.6% and 0.3%, respectively. Major GI bleeding and genitourinary bleeding for tirofiban in combination with heparin was 0.1—0.2% and 0—0.1%, respectively. In both PRISM-PLUS and RESTORE, the overall incidence of major bleeding was strongly related to the incidence of CABG surgery; the excess bleeding seen with tirofiban, however, was seen only among the patients who did not undergo CABG. Overall, female and elderly patients who received tirofiban with heparin or heparin alone had a higher incidence of bleeding complications than male patients or younger patients. However, the incremental risk of bleeding in patients treated with tirofiban in combination with heparin over the risk in patients treated with heparin alone was comparable regardless of age or gender.In controlled clinical trials, the incidence of non-bleeding adverse events in tirofiban-treated patients that occurred at an incidence of >1% and numerically higher than control, regardless of drug relationship, included edema (2%), pelvic pain (6%), hypotension associated with a vasovagal reaction (2%), sinus bradycardia (4%), coronary artery dissection (5%), leg pain (3%), dizziness (3%), and diaphoresis (2%). Other non-bleeding side effects (considered at least possibly related to tirofiban therapy) reported in >1% of patients were nausea/vomiting, fever, and headache; these side effects were reported at a similar rate in the heparin control group.Acute and/or severe decrease in platelet count has been reported during therapy with tirofiban. In phase III clinical trials, patients treated with tirofiban (in combination with heparin) were more likely to experience thrombocytopenia than patients treated with heparin alone. The percentage of patients with a decrease in platelets to < 90,000/mm3 was 1.5% in the tirofiban/heparin group and 0.6% in the heparin control group. The percentage of patients with a decrease of platelets to < 50,000/mm3 was 0.3%, compared with 0.1% of the patients who received heparin alone. These decreases were reversible upon discontinuation of tirofiban. Decreases in platelet counts have been associated with low-grade fever, chills, and bleeding complications. Platelet decreases have been observed in patients with no prior history of thrombocytopenia upon readministration of GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists. The manufacturer recommends early monitoring of platelet count in patients who have previously received GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists.Anaphylactoid reactions (anaphylactic shock, severe allergic reactions) have been reported during post-marketing experience with tirofiban; the reactions have occurred during the first day of tirofiban infusion, during initial treatment, and during readministration of tirofiban. Rash (unspecified) and urticaria have been reported in some patients. Some hypersensitivity cases have been associated with severe thrombocytopenia (platelet counts<10,000/mm3). No information is available regarding the development of antibodies to tirofiban.The carcinogenic potential of tirofiban has not been evaluated. Tirofiban was not genotoxic in short-term in vitro tests (e.g., chromosomal aberration assay). In addition, tirofiban had no effect on fertility or reproductive performance of male or female rats when given at a dose about 5 times the recommended maximum daily human dose (on a BSA basis).
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dizziness
    General Information
    Nervous system adverse events reported with tirofiban in clinical trials include dizziness. Dizziness was reported in 3% of subjects receiving tirofiban plus heparin vs. 2% of subjects receiving heparin alone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bradycardia
    General Information
    Cardiovascular adverse events reported with tirofiban in clinical trials include bradycardia and coronary artery dissection. Bradycardia was reported in 4% of subjects receiving tirofiban plus heparin vs. 3% of subjects receiving heparin alone. Coronary artery dissection was reported in 5% of subjects receiving tirofiban plus heparin vs. 4% of subjects receiving heparin alone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bleeding, hematemesis, hematuria, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, retroperitoneal bleeding
    General Information
    Bleeding is the most common adverse event associated with tirofiban. Most bleeding associated with tirofiban occurs at the arterial access site for cardiac catheterization. Minimize the use of traumatic or potentially traumatic procedures such as arterial and venous punctures, intramuscular injections, nasotracheal intubation, etc. Fatal bleeding events have been reported, especially during concurrent heparin and tirofiban therapy; closely monitor aPTT to adjust heparin therapy during coadministration. Major bleeding associated with tirofiban has included cardiac tamponade, intracranial bleeding, retroperitoneal bleeding, bleeding requiring transfusion of 2 units or more of blood products, or hemoglobin (Hgb) decrease of more than 5 g/dL. Minor bleeding events include hemoglobin decrease of more than 3 g/dL with bleeding from a known site, spontaneous gross hematuria, hematemesis, or hemoptysis. In the PRISM-PLUS study, major bleeding occurred in 1.4% of subjects treated with tirofiban plus heparin and in 0.8% of subjects in the heparin control group; minor bleeding occurred in 10.5% and 8% of subjects, respectively. In the RESTORE study, major bleeding occurred in 5.3% of subjects in the tirofiban group and 3.7% of subjects in the placebo group. The incidence of intracranial bleeding in the RESTORE study was 0.1% for tirofiban in combination with heparin and 0.3% for the heparin control group; there were no reports of intracranial bleeding in the PRISM-PLUS study. In the RESTORE study, the incidence of retroperitoneal bleeding was similar for the treatment and placebo groups, 0.6% and 0.3%, respectively. In PRISM-PLUS, the overall incidence of major bleeding was strongly related to the incidence of CABG surgery. Elderly subjects receiving tirofiban with heparin or heparin alone had a higher incidence of bleeding complications than did younger subjects, but the incremental risk of bleeding in subjects treated with tirofiban in combination with heparin compared to the risk in subjects treated with heparin alone was similar regardless of age.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematemesis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      retroperitoneal bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hemoptysis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Profound thrombocytopenia has been reported with tirofiban. In clinical trials, subjects treated with tirofiban plus heparin were more likely to experience decreases in platelet count than subjects treated with heparin alone. The percentage of subjects with a decrease in platelets to less than 90,000/mm3 was 1.5% in those receiving tirofiban plus heparin and 0.6% in those receiving heparin alone. The percentage of subjects with a decrease of platelets to less than 50,000/mm3 was 0.3% in those receiving tirofiban plus heparin and 0.1% in those receiving heparin alone. These decreases were reversible upon discontinuation of tirofiban. Monitor platelet counts beginning about 6 hours after tirofiban treatment initiation and daily thereafter. If the platelet count decreases to less than 90,000/mm3, monitor platelet counts to exclude pseudothrombocytopenia. If thrombocytopenia is confirmed, discontinue tirofiban and heparin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, pelvic pain
    General Information
    Edema, sweating, and vasovagal reaction have been reported in 2% of subjects receiving tirofiban plus heparin vs. 1% of subjects receiving heparin alone in clinical trials. Leg pain has been reported in 3% of subjects receiving heparin plus tirofiban vs. 2% of subjects receiving heparin alone, and pelvic pain has been reported in 6% of subjects receiving tirofiban plus heparin vs. 5% of subjects receiving heparin alone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pelvic pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions
    General Information
    Severe allergic reactions including anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with tirofiban in postmarketing; these reactions have occurred during the first day of tirofiban infusion, during initial treatment, and during readministration of tirofiban. Some cases have been associated with severe thrombocytopenia (platelet counts less than 10,000/mm3).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Tirofiban is a synthetic non-peptide platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor approved for rate reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes. Inhibition of the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor prevents platelet aggregation. Tirofiban has a low molecular weight and little, if any, immunogenicity. When administered at the recommended dosage, > 90% inhibition of platelet aggregation is attained within 10 minutes, and platelet aggregation reverses within 4—8 hours of drug discontinuation. Tirofiban was FDA-approved in May 1998.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Tirofiban is a competitive inhibitor of glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa preventing the binding of fibrinogen,von Willebrand factor (vWF), and other adhesive ligands to the GP IIb/IIIa receptor on activated platelets. "Integrins", which are found on virtually all cell types, are a family of adhesion molecules that mediate many physiologic responses. Unlike many of the other integrins, GP IIb/IIIa is platelet specific and is also the most abundant receptor found on activated platelets, with about 50,000 copies/cell. Fibrinogen is the principal ligand to bind to the GP IIb/IIIa receptor. The binding of fibrinogen and, to a lesser extent other ligands such as vWF, to the GP IIb/IIIa receptor results in cross-linking between platelets and is the final common pathway of platelet aggregation, which ultimately leads to thrombus formation. Tirofiban binds to GP IIb/IIIa via an arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) sequence. Unlike abciximab, tirofiban does not bind to the vitronectin receptor. The clinical relevance of binding to vitronectin is not fully understood. Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors can prevent platelet aggregation regardless of the agonist involved; thus, tirofiban will block thrombin-induced platelet aggregation while aspirin will not. When administered alone, tirofiban has no effect on PT or aPTT.

Pharmacokinetics
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Hepatic impairment does not affect the plasma clearance of tirofiban.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Plasma clearance is decreased approximately 40% in patients with a CrCl 50% in patients with CrCl < 30 mL/minute, including patients requiring hemodialysis. Tirofiban is removed by hemodialysis.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age does not affect the plasma clearance of tirofiban.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race does not affect the plasma clearance of tirofiban.
  Text
  Tirofiban is administered intravenously. Tirofiban is not highly bound to plasma proteins and protein binding is concentration independent over the range of 0.01 to 25 mcg/mL. In human plasma, the unbound fraction is about 35%. Metabolism of tirofiban appears to be limited. Renal clearance accounts for about 39% of plasma clearance. About 65% of a dose of tirofiban is excreted in urine and about 25% in feces, both largely as unchanged drug. The elimination half-life of tirofiban is approximately 2 hours (range: 1.7 to 2 hours).
 
Tirofiban inhibits platelet function, as demonstrated by its ability to inhibit ex vivo adenosine phosphate (ADP)-induced platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. Platelet aggregation is inhibited by > 90% approximately 10 minutes after administering the bolus dose and initiating the maintenance infusion. The addition of heparin does not affect the percentage of patients with > 70% inhibition of platelet aggregation but does increase the average bleeding time as well as the number of patients with bleeding times prolonged to > 30 minutes. Platelet inhibition is reversible following cessation of the infusion. Platelet aggregation returns to near baseline in about 90% of patients within 4 to 8 hours.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Preparation
Tirofiban is available only as a premixed solution.
To open the premixed bag, tear off the foil overpouch. The plastic may appear opaque due to moisture absorption during sterilization; this should gradually diminish. Check for leaks by gently squeezing the inner bag. Discard the solution if leaks are found or if sterility cannot be confirmed. Do not use unless the solution is clear and the seal is intact.
To prepare the bolus dose, withdraw the appropriate volume from the premixed vial or bag into a syringe. Do not dilute.
 
IV Infusion
Administer the bolus dose within 5 minutes via a syringe or IV pump. For patients weighing 167 kg or more, administer the bolus via syringe from the 15 mL premixed bolus vial, to ensure that delivery time does not exceed 5 minutes.
Administer the maintenance infusion via an IV pump immediately after bolus dose administration.
Do NOT administer tirofiban through the same line as diazepam. Do not add other drugs or remove solution directly from the bag with a syringe.
Tirofiban may be administered in the same IV line as heparin, atropine, dobutamine, dopamine, epinephrine, famotidine, furosemide, lidocaine, midazolam, morphine, nitroglycerin, potassium chloride, and propranolol.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    25 mcg/kg IV bolus followed by 0.15 mcg/kg/minute for up to 18 hours.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    25 mcg/kg IV bolus followed by 0.15 mcg/kg/minute for up to 18 hours.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 60 mL/minute or less: 25 mcg/kg IV within 5 minutes followed by 0.075 mcg/kg/minute.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Dosage recommendations in patients undergoing intermittent hemodialysis have not been established. Tirofiban is removed by hemodialysis; however, plasma clearance of tirofiban is significantly decreased (more than 50%) in patients with a CrCl less than 30 mL/minute, including patients requiring hemodialysis.
