=== Fostemsavir (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5235)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Fostemsavir is indicated for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents to treat heavily treatment-experienced adults with multidrug-resistant HIV-1 infections who are failing their current antiretroviral regimen due to resistance, intolerance, or safety considerations.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1,200 mg per day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): abnormal dreams, asthenia, dizziness, drowsiness, dysgeusia, fatigue, headache, insomnia, peripheral neuropathy, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, autoimmune disease, guillain-barre syndrome, immune reconstitution syndrome

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Patients with underlying hepatitis B infection or hepatitis C infection are at increased risk of developing transaminase elevations while receiving fostemsavir. In some patients, these elevations are consistent with hepatitis B virus reactivation, particularly in the setting where anti-hepatitis...

Brand Names
  - Rukobia

Dosage Forms
  - Rukobia 600mg Extended-Release Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General Dosing Information
Initiation of therapy for HIV infection
For adults, initiation of treatment immediately (or as soon as possible) after HIV diagnosis is recommended in all patients to reduce the risk of disease progression and to prevent the transmission of HIV, including perinatal transmission and transmission to sexual partners.
Starting antiretroviral therapy early is particularly important for patients with AIDS-defining conditions, those with acute or recent HIV infection, and individuals who are pregnant; delaying therapy in these subpopulations has been associated with high risks of morbidity, mortality, and HIV transmission.
For patients receiving an HIV diagnosis while hospitalized, it is recommended to initiate treatment during hospitalization whenever possible. Further, ensure a sufficient supply of medication (e.g., at least 2 to 4 weeks) is available to cover until the outpatient clinic appointment.
For elite controllers (i.e., patients who maintain viral loads below the level of quantification for years without treatment), antiretroviral therapy is still recommended. If deferred, closely monitor these patients as some may experience CD4 count decline, loss of viral control, or HIV-related complications.
Prior to initiating treatment, obtain baseline plasma HIV RNA (viral load) and CD4 count; results do not need to be available before starting therapy.
Antiretroviral drug-resistance testing:
Genotypic drug-resistance testing is recommended prior to initiation of therapy and prior to changing therapy for treatment failure.
Standard genotypic drug-resistance testing in treatment-naive people should focus on testing for mutations in reverse transcriptase (RT) and protease (PR) genes.
Testing for mutations in the integrase gene should also be performed if integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) resistance is a concern (i.e., prior exposure to INSTI for pre-exposure prophylaxis, post-exposure prophylaxis, or treatment).
For patients who previously received long-acting cabotegravir or cabotegravir; rilpivirine, resistance testing (including INSTI genotypic testing) should be conducted regardless of the time since the last dose as INSTI and NNRTI mutations may emerge months after the last dose.
Phenotypic resistance testing may be used in conjunction with the genotypic test for patients with known or suspected complex drug-resistance mutation patterns.
HIV-1 proviral DNA resistance testing is available for use in patients with HIV RNA concentrations below the limits of detection or with low-level viremia (i.e., less than 1,000 copies/mL), where genotypic testing is unlikely to be successful; however, the clinical utility of this assay has not been fully determined.
It is not necessary to delay treatment until resistance test results are available; however, subsequent modifications to the treatment regimen should be made, if needed, once the test results are available.
Pediatric guidelines are also available.
 
Place in therapy for HIV infection
Fostemsavir is used as part of combination therapy in heavily treatment-experienced adults with multidrug-resistant HIV-1 infections failing their current antiretroviral regimen due to resistance, intolerance, or safety considerations.
Limited data suggest HIV-2 is intrinsically resistant to temsavir; therefore, fostemsavir is not recommended for use in patients with HIV-2 infections.
Data are limited regarding the use of fostemsavir during pregnancy; therefore, routine use of fostemsavir in pregnant patients cannot be recommended. However, it may be appropriate to continue use of the drug in some heavily treatment-experienced pregnant patients without alternative options.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        600 mg PO twice daily with or without food.
    Heading
    For use in combination with other antiretroviral agents to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in heavily treatment-experienced adults with multidrug-resistant HIV-1 infection failing their current antiretroviral regimen

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    hepatitis B infection, hepatitis C infection
    General Information
    Patients with underlying hepatitis B infection or hepatitis C infection are at increased risk of developing transaminase elevations while receiving fostemsavir. In some patients, these elevations are consistent with hepatitis B virus reactivation, particularly in the setting where anti-hepatitis therapy is withdrawn. Closely monitor liver function tests in patients with coinfection who receive a fostemsavir-containing regimen.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    apheresis, cardiac disease, celiac disease, females, geriatric, hyperparathyroidism, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypothermia, hypothyroidism, pheochromocytoma, rheumatoid arthritis, sickle cell disease, sleep deprivation, systemic lupus erythematosus
    General Information
    Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (4,800 mg per day) have resulted in prolongation of the QT interval. Health care providers are advised to use caution when administering fostemsavir with medications that have the potential to cause QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. Caution is also advised when administering fostemsavir to patients with cardiac disease or other conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation including congenital long QT syndrome, bradycardia, AV block, heart failure, stress-related cardiomyopathy, myocardial infarction, stroke, hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, or in patients receiving medications known to cause electrolyte imbalances. Females, geriatric patients, patients with sleep deprivation, pheochromocytoma, sickle cell disease, hypothyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, hypothermia, systemic inflammation (e.g., human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, fever, and some autoimmune diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and celiac disease) and patients undergoing apheresis procedures (e.g., plasmapheresis [plasma exchange], cytapheresis) may also be at increased risk for QT prolongation.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    During baseline evaluation of people with HIV, discuss risk reduction measures and the need for status disclosure to sexual or needle-sharing partners, especially with untreated patients who are still at high risk of HIV transmission. Include the importance of adherence to therapy to achieve and maintain a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL. Maintaining a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL, including any measurable value below this threshold, with antiretroviral therapy prevents sexual transmission of HIV to their partners. Patients may recognize this concept as Undetectable = Untransmittable or U=U. Instruct patients to achieve sustained viral suppression (i.e., 2 recorded measurements of plasma viral loads that are below the limits of detection and taken at least 3 months apart) before attempting to conceive a child in order to maximize their health, prevent HIV sexual transmission, and minimize the risk of HIV transmission to the infant once conception occurs. For partners with different HIV status when the person with HIV is on antiretroviral therapy and has achieved sustained viral suppression, sexual intercourse without a condom allows conception without sexual HIV transmission to the person without HIV; expert consultation is recommended. If the partner with HIV has not been able to achieve viral suppression, has an unknown viral suppression status, or has the potential for inconsistent adherence during the periconception period, the use of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) by the partner without HIV is an option to reduce the risk of sexual HIV acquisition.
 
Testing for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection resistance is recommended in all antiretroviral treatment-naive patients at the time of HIV diagnosis, regardless of whether treatment will be initiated. Additionally, perform resistance testing prior to initiating or changing any HIV treatment regimen. Transmission of drug-resistant HIV strains has been both well documented and associated with suboptimal virologic response to initial antiretroviral therapy. The prevalence of transmitted drug resistance (TDR) in high-income countries ranges from 9% to 14% and varies by country. In most TDR surveys, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) resistance and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) resistance are the most common mutation class types detected, followed by protease inhibitor (PI) and integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) resistance mutations, respectively. Resistance testing at baseline can help optimize treatment and, thus, virologic response. In the absence of therapy, resistant viruses may decline over time to less than the detection limit of standard resistance tests, but may still increase the risk of treatment failure when therapy is eventually initiated. Thus, if therapy is deferred, resistance testing should still be performed during acute HIV infection with the genotypic resistance test result kept in the patient's medical record until it becomes clinically useful. Additionally, because of the possibility of acquisition of another drug-resistant virus before treatment initiation, repeat resistance testing at the time therapy is initiated would be prudent.
 
Perform hepatitis A virus (HAV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) screening in any patient who presents with HIV infection to assure appropriate treatment. If the HBV screening is positive, additional testing for hepatitis D virus (HDV) is recommended. Patients with HIV and HBV/HDV coinfection should be referred to an expert in the management of viral hepatitis. Patients with hepatitis B and HIV coinfection should be started on a fully suppressive antiretroviral (ARV) regimen with activity against both viruses (regardless of CD4 counts and HBV DNA concentrations). HIV treatment guidelines recommend these patients receive an ARV regimen that contains a dual NRTI backbone of tenofovir alafenamide or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with either emtricitabine or lamivudine. Both tenofovir products are active against HBV and can be used as HBV monotherapy. Emtricitabine and lamivudine are also active against HBV; however, they are not recommended for use as monotherapy due to the potential for HBV resistance. Therefore, if tenofovir cannot be used, entecavir should be given in combination with a fully suppressive ARV regimen (NOTE: entecavir should not be considered part of the ARV regimen). Avoid HBV treatment regimens that include adefovir or peginterferon alfa, as these regimens are associated with a higher incidence of toxicities and increased rates of HBV treatment failure. In rare cases, peginterferon alfa can remain a treatment option after consultation with an expert. Most patients with coinfection should continue treatment indefinitely with the goal of maximal HIV suppression and prevention of HBV relapse. If treatment must be discontinued, monitor transaminase concentrations every 6 weeks for the first 3 months, and every 3 to 6 months thereafter. Instruct patients with hepatitis and HIV coinfection to avoid consuming alcohol, and offer vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.
 
HIV treatment guidelines recommend all patients presenting with HIV infection undergo routine screening for hepatitis C virus (HCV). For HCV seronegative individuals who are at continued high risk of acquiring hepatitis C, specifically men who have sex with men (MSM) or persons who inject drugs, additional HCV screening is recommended annually or as indicated by clinical presentation (e.g., unexplained ALT elevation), risk activities, or exposure. Similarly, the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines and the CDC preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP) guidelines recommend HCV serologic testing at baseline and every 12 months for MSM, transgender women, and persons who inject drugs. Use an FDA-approved immunoassay licensed for detection of HCV antibodies (anti-HCV); in settings where acute HCV infection is suspected or in persons with known prior infection that cleared spontaneously or after treatment, use of nucleic acid testing for HCV RNA is recommended. If hepatitis C and HIV coinfection is identified, consider treating both viral infections concurrently. It is recommended to use a fully suppressive antiretroviral therapy and an HCV regimen in all patients with coinfection regardless of CD4 count, as lower CD4 counts do not appear to compromise the efficacy of HCV treatment. In most patients, a simplified pangenotypic HCV regimen (i.e., glecaprevir; pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir; velpatasvir) may be an appropriate choice; however, these regimens are NOT recommended for use in persons with HCV and HIV coinfection who: are treatment-experienced with HCV relapse (reinfection after successful therapy is not an exclusion); have decompensated cirrhosis; on a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate containing regimen with eGFR less than 60 mL/minute; on efavirenz, etravirine, nevirapine, or boosted protease inhibitor; have untreated chronic hepatitis B; are pregnant. Patients with HCV and HIV coinfection who meet these exclusion criteria should be treated for HCV following standard approaches as described in the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines. Treatment of HCV infection in children younger than 3 years is not usually recommended; however, treatment should be considered for all children 3 years and older with HCV and HIV coinfection who have no contraindications to treatment. Instruct patients with coinfection to avoid consuming alcohol, limit ingestion of potentially hepatotoxic medications, avoid iron supplementation in the absence of documented iron deficiency, and receive vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.
 
Patients with HIV who must undergo a solid organ transplant or allogeneic stem cell transplant should be managed by a multidisciplinary team before, during, and after the transplant to ensure comprehensive care. Prior to the transplant, ensure viral suppression is obtained, and the patient is up-to-date on their vaccinations. Review the patient's antiretroviral history, prior drug resistance results, adherence history, and the potential for drug interactions. Bictegravir- or dolutegravir-based regimens are preferred in most patients needing a transplant. Consider using tenofovir alafenamide over tenofovir disoproxil fumarate due to the lower risk of affecting renal function and bone mineral density. In general, avoid use of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, cobicistat, protease inhibitors) or CYP3A4 inducing non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (efavirenz, nevirapine, etravirine). If a change in the antiretroviral regimen is necessary, the switch should be completed several weeks before the transplant whenever possible. Renal and hepatic function may fluctuate immediately post-transplant; thus, close monitoring is recommended to ensure appropriate dosing and to avoid potential drug toxicities. Additionally, therapeutic drug monitoring of the immunosuppressive medications should be performed to guide dose adjustments. Make every effort to avoid post-transplant interruption of antiretroviral therapy. If an interruption is necessary, stop all components of the regimen simultaneously and restart treatment as soon as possible.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. Data regarding the use of fostemsavir during pregnancy are insufficient to determine the drug-associated risk of birth defects and miscarriages; therefore, fostemsavir-containing regimens are not recommended for routine use during pregnancy. However, it may be appropriate to continue use of the drug in some heavily treatment-experienced pregnant individuals without alternative options. If the decision is made with the individual to continue the use of fostemsavir during pregnancy, frequent viral load monitoring (every 1 to 2 months) and counseling regarding a lack of safety data is recommended. Data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry includes 2 live births of infants who were exposed to fostemsavir during the first trimester; no birth defects were reported. In animal reproduction studies involving rats and rabbits, no evidence of adverse developmental effects was observed at clinically relevant fostemsavir doses. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA levels above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to fostemsavir; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Provide mothers with evidence-based, patient-centered counseling to support shared decision-making regarding infant feeding. Inform patients that use of replacement feeding (i.e., formula or banked pasteurized donor human milk) eliminates the risk of HIV transmission. It is recommended to use replacement feeding in patients with HIV who are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) or do not have suppressed viral load during pregnancy, as well as at delivery. For patients on ART who have achieved and maintained viral suppression during pregnancy (at minimum throughout the third trimester) and postpartum, the transmission risk from breast-feeding is less than 1%, but not zero. Virologically suppressed patients who choose to breast-feed should be supported in this decision. If breast-feeding is chosen, counsel the patient about the importance of adherence to therapy and recommend that the infant be exclusively breast-fed for up to 6 months of age, as exclusive breast-feeding has been associated with a lower rate of HIV transmission as compared to mixed feeding (i.e., breast milk and formula). If a viral load is subsequently detected in a breast-feeding mother, it is recommended to discontinue or temporarily stop breast-feeding while the viral load is rechecked, causes of viremia are assessed, adherence counseling is reinforced, and the breast-fed infant undergoes HIV nucleic acid testing (NAT). If the repeated viral load is undetectable, a shared decision should be made regarding resumption of breast-feeding. If the mother's HIV RNA is 200 copies/mL or more, most experts recommend permanent discontinuation of breast-feeding and initiation of a 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. ART (1- or 3-drug regimen) for the infant may also be considered if the mother's HIV RNA is quantifiable but less than 200 copies/mL; consult an expert for guidance. For mothers who receive a new HIV diagnosis while breast-feeding (acute HIV), it is recommended to immediately switch from breast-feeding to replacement feeding, perform an infant HIV NAT, and initiate a 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. Promptly identify and treat mastitis, thrush, and cracked or bleeding nipples, as these conditions may increase the risk of HIV transmission through breast-feeding. Breast-fed infants should undergo immediate diagnostic and virologic HIV testing. Testing should continue throughout breast-feeding and up to 6 months after cessation of breast-feeding. For expert consultation, health care workers may contact the Perinatal HIV Hotline (888-448-8765). There are no data on the presence of fostemsavir in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Fostemsavir-related drug was present in the milk of lactating rats.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. Data regarding the use of fostemsavir during pregnancy are insufficient to determine the drug-associated risk of birth defects and miscarriages; therefore, fostemsavir-containing regimens are not recommended for routine use during pregnancy. However, it may be appropriate to continue use of the drug in some heavily treatment-experienced pregnant individuals without alternative options. If the decision is made with the individual to continue the use of fostemsavir during pregnancy, frequent viral load monitoring (every 1 to 2 months) and counseling regarding a lack of safety data is recommended. Data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry includes 2 live births of infants who were exposed to fostemsavir during the first trimester; no birth defects were reported. In animal reproduction studies involving rats and rabbits, no evidence of adverse developmental effects was observed at clinically relevant fostemsavir doses. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA levels above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to fostemsavir; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Provide mothers with evidence-based, patient-centered counseling to support shared decision-making regarding infant feeding. Inform patients that use of replacement feeding (i.e., formula or banked pasteurized donor human milk) eliminates the risk of HIV transmission. It is recommended to use replacement feeding in patients with HIV who are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) or do not have suppressed viral load during pregnancy, as well as at delivery. For patients on ART who have achieved and maintained viral suppression during pregnancy (at minimum throughout the third trimester) and postpartum, the transmission risk from breast-feeding is less than 1%, but not zero. Virologically suppressed patients who choose to breast-feed should be supported in this decision. If breast-feeding is chosen, counsel the patient about the importance of adherence to therapy and recommend that the infant be exclusively breast-fed for up to 6 months of age, as exclusive breast-feeding has been associated with a lower rate of HIV transmission as compared to mixed feeding (i.e., breast milk and formula). If a viral load is subsequently detected in a breast-feeding mother, it is recommended to discontinue or temporarily stop breast-feeding while the viral load is rechecked, causes of viremia are assessed, adherence counseling is reinforced, and the breast-fed infant undergoes HIV nucleic acid testing (NAT). If the repeated viral load is undetectable, a shared decision should be made regarding resumption of breast-feeding. If the mother's HIV RNA is 200 copies/mL or more, most experts recommend permanent discontinuation of breast-feeding and initiation of a 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. ART (1- or 3-drug regimen) for the infant may also be considered if the mother's HIV RNA is quantifiable but less than 200 copies/mL; consult an expert for guidance. For mothers who receive a new HIV diagnosis while breast-feeding (acute HIV), it is recommended to immediately switch from breast-feeding to replacement feeding, perform an infant HIV NAT, and initiate a 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. Promptly identify and treat mastitis, thrush, and cracked or bleeding nipples, as these conditions may increase the risk of HIV transmission through breast-feeding. Breast-fed infants should undergo immediate diagnostic and virologic HIV testing. Testing should continue throughout breast-feeding and up to 6 months after cessation of breast-feeding. For expert consultation, health care workers may contact the Perinatal HIV Hotline (888-448-8765). There are no data on the presence of fostemsavir in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Fostemsavir-related drug was present in the milk of lactating rats.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with fostemsavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of alpelisib with fostemsavir due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor the ECG in patients taking amisulpride with fostemsavir due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Use the lowest possible starting dose for atorvastatin when administered concurrently with fostemsavir and monitor for signs of atorvastatin-associated adverse events, such as rhabdomyolysis. Use of these drugs together may increase the systemic exposure of atorvastatin. Atorvastatin is a substrate for the transporters OATP1B1/3 and fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/3.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with fostemsavir. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Anagrelide: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Apalutamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and apalutamide is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and fostemsavir together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of arsenic trioxide and fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation; discontinue or select an alternative drug that does not prolong the QT interval prior to starting arsenic trioxide therapy. If concomitant drug use is unavoidable, frequently monitor electrocardiograms. Torsade de pointes (TdP), QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if fostemsavir must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation. (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if fostemsavir must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid using asenapine in combination with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Atidarsagene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Atogepant: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with fostemsavir. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and fostemsavir is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Use the lowest possible starting dose for atorvastatin when administered concurrently with fostemsavir and monitor for signs of atorvastatin-associated adverse events, such as rhabdomyolysis. Use of these drugs together may increase the systemic exposure of atorvastatin. Atorvastatin is a substrate for the transporters OATP1B1/3 and fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/3.
Atrasentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and fostemsavir due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and fostemsavir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with fostemsavir due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Monitor ECGs if bedaquiline is coadministered with fostemsavir. Discontinue bedaquiline if evidence of serious ventricular arrhythmia or QTcF interval greater than 500 ms. Bedaquiline prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Betibeglogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostemsavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Brincidofovir: (Moderate) Postpone the administration of fostemsavir for at least three hours after brincidofovir administration and increase monitoring for brincidofovir-related adverse reactions (i.e., elevated hepatic enzymes and bilirubin, diarrhea, other gastrointestinal adverse events) if concomitant use of brincidofovir and fostemsavir is necessary. Brincidofovir is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and fostemsavir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, the mean AUC and Cmax of brincidofovir increased by 374% and 269%, respectively, when administered with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of buprenorphine with fostemsavir. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of buprenorphine with fostemsavir. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
carBAMazepine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and carbamazepine is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with fostemsavir if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib causes dose-dependent QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with fostemsavir due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Use chlorpromazine and fostemsavir together with caution. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of fostemsavir with cisapride is contraindicated. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Due to the risk of QT prolongation, citalopram should be avoided in combination with fostemsavir. If concurrent therapy is considered essential, ECG monitoring is recommended. Citalopram causes dose-dependent QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with fostemsavir. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Use clozapine and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with fostemsavir due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib can cause dose-dependent QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostemsavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Use dasatinib with caution in combination with fostemsavir. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Desflurane: (Major) Use halogenated anesthetics and fostemsavir together with caution. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) The risk of QT prolongation may be increased with coadministration of deutetrabenazine and fostemsavir. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of quinidine with fostemsavir as concomitant use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Disopyramide: (Major) Use disopyramide and fostemsavir together with caution. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and fostemsavir is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with fostemsavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with fostemsavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with fostemsavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Use donepezil and fostemsavir together with caution. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Use donepezil and fostemsavir together with caution. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of fostemsavir with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should not be used in combination with any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval, such as fostemsavir. If coadministration cannot be avoided, use extreme caution; initiate droperidol at a low dose and increase the dose as needed to achieve the desired effect. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with fostemsavir. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with fostemsavir. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with fostemsavir. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Elagolix: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of elagolix with fostemsavir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase elagolix exposure. Elagolix is a substrate of OATP1B1 and fostemsavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of elagolix with fostemsavir is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase elagolix exposure. Elagolix is a substrate of OATP1B1 and fostemsavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of grazoprevir and fostemsavir is contraindicated due to the potential for increased grazoprevir exposure. Grazoprevir is a substrate of OATP1B1/3 and fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/3.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Elivaldogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostemsavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostemsavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostemsavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of fostemsavir with encorafenib is contraindicated due to decreased exposure of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, which may impair efficacy and increase the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Temsavir is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with fostemsavir due to the risk of QT prolongation. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Enzalutamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and enzalutamide is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
eriBULin: (Major) ECG monitoring is recommended if eribulin is administered with fostemsavir. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Use erythromycin and fostemsavir together with caution. Erythromycin is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of escitalopram and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etuvetidigene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV), such as etuvetidigene autotemcel. Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization and continue to hold therapy until at least 7 days after etuvetidigene autotemcel infusion; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may decrease etuvetidigene autotemcel efficacy by reducing LVV activity and interfering with gene therapy manufacturing.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Use the lowest possible starting dose for simvastatin when administered concurrently with fostemsavir and monitor for signs of simvastatin-associated adverse events, such as rhabdomyolysis. Use of these drugs together may increase the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Simvastatin is a substrate for the transporters OATP1B1/3 and fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/3.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. After the first fingolimod dose, overnight monitoring with continuous ECG in a medical facility is advised for patients taking QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Flecainide: (Major) Use flecanide and fostemsavir together with caution due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP); flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs that have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of fluconazole with drugs that are associated with QT prolongation and are also CYP3A4 substrates, such as fostemsavir. Closely monitor electrolytes and ECG if concomitant use is necessary. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and is a moderate CYP 3A4 inhibitor. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Use fluphenazine and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. Fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Fluvastatin: (Moderate) Use the lowest possible starting dose for fluvastatin when administered concurrent with fostemsavir and monitor for signs of fluvastatin-associated adverse events, such as rhabdomyolysis. Use of these drugs together may increase the systemic exposure of fluvastatin. Fluvastatin is a substrate for the transporter OATP1B1 and fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Use fluvoxamine and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported during fluvoxamine post-marketing use. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Foscarnet: (Major) Avoid use of foscarnet with fostemsavir due to the potential for both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported during postmarketing use of foscarnet. Because of these reports, avoid the use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Fosphenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and fosphenytoin is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Gemifloxacin should be used cautiously with other agents that may prolong the QT interval or increase the risk of TdP, including fostemsavir. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and fostemsavir is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and fostemsavir as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of BCRP and OATP1B1/3; fostemsavir is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of pibrentasvir and fostemsavir as increased plasma concentrations of pibrentasvir may occur resulting in increased risk of pibrentasvir-related adverse events. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Use granisetron with caution in combination with fostemsavir due to the risk of QT prolongation. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Use halogenated anesthetics and fostemsavir together with caution. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Caution is advised when combining haloperidol concurrently with fostemsavir. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of hydroxychloroquine and fostemsavir due to the risk of increased QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Hydroxychloroquine prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Ibutilide: (Major) Coadminister ibutilide with fostemsavir with caution due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of iloperidone with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain ECGs and electrolytes prior to the start of treatment and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Isoflurane: (Major) Use halogenated anesthetics and fostemsavir together with caution. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Use itraconazole with caution in combination with fostemsavir. Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with fostemsavir if possible due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and fostemsavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with fostemsavir. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if lapatinib is administered with fostemsavir. Lapatinib has been associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with fostemsavir as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, ECG monitoring is recommended during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that affect cardiac conduction is unknown. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Lentivirus vector therapy (selected): (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with fostemsavir due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for letermovir-related adverse events (i.e., tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, and gastrointestinal events) if administered with fostemsavir, as use of these drugs together may result in increased letermovir plasma concentrations. Letermovir is a substrate of OATP1B1/3 and fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/3.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and fostemsavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lithium and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Lofexidine: (Major) ECG monitoring is recommended if lofexidine is coadministered with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Use loperamide and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Use loperamide and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for lovastatin-related adverse reactions (i.e., myopathy/rhabdomyolysis) during concomitant use of fostemsavir as concurrent use may increase exposure of lovastatin. Lovastatin is a substrate for the transporter OATP1B1 and fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1.
Lovotibeglogene autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as fostemsavir. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Marnetegragene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Methadone: (Major) The need to coadminister methadone with drugs known to prolong the QT interval should be done with extreme caution and a careful assessment of treatment risks versus benefits. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Midostaurin: (Major) Consider electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring of the QT interval if midostaurin is taken concurrently with fostemsavir. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Mitotane: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and mitotane is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Momelotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in momelotinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostemsavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase momelotinib exposure. Momelotinib is an OATP1B1/3 substrate; fostemsavir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor increased momelotinib exposure by 57%; exposure of its active M21 metabolite increased by 12%.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of moxifloxacin with fostemsavir as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinolones have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid administration of nilotinib with other drugs with a known potential to prolong the QT interval. Sudden death and QT interval prolongation have occurred in patients who received nilotinib therapy. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering olanzapine with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering olanzapine with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering olanzapine with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Orlistat: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Use osilodrostat and fostemsavir together with caution and consider more frequent ECG monitoring due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fostemsavir with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor ECGs and electrolytes in patients receiving oxaliplatin concomitantly with fostemsavir; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of ozanimod and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of paliperidone with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Panobinostat: (Major) Use of panobinostat with fostemsavir is not recommended. QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pazopanib and fostemsavir due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a BCRP substrate; fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit BCRP.
Pentamidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of systemic pentamidine with fostemsavir due to increased risk of QT prolongation. Systemic pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Use perphenazine and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Use perphenazine and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
PHENobarbital: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and phenobarbital is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and phenobarbital is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Phenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and phenytoin is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with fostemsavir due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Because of the potential for TdP, use of fostemsavir with pimozide is contraindicated. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Use the lowest possible starting dose for pitavastatin when administered concurrently with fostemsavir and monitor for signs of pitavastatin-associated adverse events, such as rhabdomyolysis. Use of these drugs together may increase the systemic exposure of pitavastatin. Pitavastatin is a substrate for the transporters OATP1B1/3 and fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/3.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with fostemsavir as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking fostemsavir due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of posaconazole with drugs that are associated with QT prolongation and are also CYP3A substrates, such as fostemsavir. Closely monitor electrolytes and ECG if concomitant use is necessary. Posaconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes and is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been associated with QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Pravastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for pravastatin-related adverse reactions (i.e., myopathy/rhabdomyolysis) during concomitant use of fostemsavir as concurrent use may increase exposure of pravastatin. Pravastatin is a substrate for the transporters OATP1B1/3 and fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/3.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Primidone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and primidone is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Procainamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of procainamide with fostemsavir as concomitant use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Use prochlorperazine and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of quinidine with fostemsavir as concomitant use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of quinine with fostemsavir. Quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, such as fostemsavir, concurrent use may result in additive QT prolongation. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation; supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation; supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation.
Resmetirom: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of resmetirom and fostemsavir due to the risk for increased resmetirom exposure which may increase the risk for resmetirom-related adverse effects. Resmetirom is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and fostemsavir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Revefenacin: (Major) Concomitant use of revefenacin with fostemsavir is not recommended because it could lead to an increase in systemic exposure of the active metabolite of revefenacin and an increased potential for anticholinergic adverse effects. The active metabolite of revefenacin is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3; fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/1B3.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with fostemsavir as concomitant use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Ribociclib-associated ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with fostemsavir as concomitant use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Ribociclib-associated ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
rifAMPin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and rifampin is contraindicated. Use decreases plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, increasing the risk for loss of therapeutic response or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration reduced temsavir overall exposure by 82%.
Rifapentine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and rifapentine is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Use risperidone and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with fostemsavir. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with fostemsavir. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with fostemsavir. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering saquinavir boosted with ritonavir concurrently with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) When administering ethinyl estradiol concurrently with fostemsavir, do not exceed a maximum daily ethinyl estradiol dose of 30 mcg. Caution is advised, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for thromboembolic events. In a drug interactions study, the systemic concentration of ethinyl estradiol was increased when given with fostemsavir.
Seladelpar: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in seladelpar-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostemsavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase seladelpar exposure. Seladelpar is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another BCRP and OAPT1B1/3 inhibitor increased seladelpar overall exposure by 2-fold.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of fostemsavir with selpercatinib is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sertraline and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Use halogenated anesthetics and fostemsavir together with caution. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Use the lowest possible starting dose for simvastatin when administered concurrently with fostemsavir and monitor for signs of simvastatin-associated adverse events, such as rhabdomyolysis. Use of these drugs together may increase the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Simvastatin is a substrate for the transporters OATP1B1/3 and fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/3.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and fostemsavir. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and fostemsavir is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of voxilaprevir and fostemsavir. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of voxilaprevir, which may increase the risk for side effects. Voxilaprevir is a substrate for OATP1B1/3 and fostemsavir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Consider the potential risk for additive QT prolongation if solifenacin is administered with fostemsavir. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality was not determined. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
SORAfenib: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes if coadministration of sorafenib with fostemsavir is necessary; correct any electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Sorafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and St. John's wort is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Consider ECG and electrolyte monitoring periodically during treatment if tacrolimus is administered with fostemsavir. Tacrolimus may prolong the QT interval and cause torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of fostemsavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Use caution if telavancin is administered with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fostemsavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tetrabenazine with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is considered contraindicated for use along with agents that may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of TdP, and/or cause orthostatic hypotension. Because of the potential for TdP, use of fostemsavir with thioridazine is contraindicated. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Use tolterodine and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostemsavir with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; fostemsavir may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of BCRP and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fostemsavir with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Use trifluoperazine and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. Trifluoperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like fostemsavir. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with fostemsavir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with fostemsavir due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid vemurafenib in patients receiving medications known to prolong the QT interval such as fostemsavir. Vemurafenib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. The ECG changes occurred within the first month of treatment. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider interventions to minimize the risk of progression to torsades de pointes (TdP), such as ECG monitoring and correcting electrolyte abnormalities, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Voclosporin and fostemsavir have been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with fostemsavir. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Administer voriconazole with caution in combination with fostemsavir due to additive QT prolongation. Voriconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Zavegepant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zavegepant and fostemsavir. Concomitant use may increase zavegepant exposure and the risk for zavegepant-related adverse effects. Zavegepant is an OATP1B3 substrate and fostemsavir is an OATP1B3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B3 inhibitor increased zavegepant overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and fostemsavir should be avoided due to a potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes [greater than 5-times the upper limit of normal (ULN)] was observed in 4% to 5% of all patients receiving fostemsavir during clinical trials. Further analysis found the incidence was higher in those patients who were coinfected with hepatitis B or C (14%) as compared to those without hepatitis coinfection (2% to 3%). Additionally, some of the increases in hepatic enzymes were consistent with reactivation of hepatitis B, particularly in the setting where anti-hepatitis therapy was withdrawn.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Hyperbilirubinemia (more than 2.6-times ULN) was observed in 3% to 14% of patients treated with fostemsavir during clinical trials. In most cases, elevations in direct bilirubin (without jaundice) were transient, occurred without increases in hepatic enzymes, and resolved with continued use. However, a few cases were confounded by the presence of serious comorbid events, such as sepsis, cholangiocarcinoma, and other complications of viral hepatitis coinfection.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    During clinical trials, 5% of patients treated with fostemsavir developed hypercholesterolemia (more than 300 mg/dL), with 4% having an LDL concentration of at least 190 mg/dL. In addition, hypertriglyceridemia (more than 500 mg/dL) was reported in 5% to 10% of drug recipients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, neutropenia
    General Information
    Hematologic adverse events associated with the use of fostemsavir during clinical trials included anemia (6%; defined as hemoglobin less than 9 g/dL), neutropenia (4% to 7%; defined as less than 600 cells/mm3), and leukocyte abnormalities (1% to 6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia (greater than 250 mg/dL) was reported in 4% of patients who received treatment with fostemsavir during clinical trials. Other laboratory abnormalities observed in drug recipients included elevated creatine kinase (2%; at least 10-times ULN), elevated lipase (5% to 10%, at least 3-times ULN), and increased urate (3%; greater than 12 mg/dL). In addition, 19% of fostemsavir treated patients developed increases in serum creatinine (greater than 1.8-times ULN or 1.5-times baseline); however, clinically relevant elevations in serum creatinine primarily occurred in patients with identifiable risk factors for reduced renal function. A causal association between fostemsavir and elevated serum creatinine has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (4,800 mg per day) have resulted in asymptomatic QT prolongation (11.2 milliseconds). At therapeutic doses, fostemsavir does not prolong the QT interval.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported by recipients of fostemsavir during clinical trials included nausea (6% to 10%), diarrhea (4% to 6%), abdominal pain (3%), dyspepsia (3%), and vomiting (2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abnormal dreams, asthenia, dizziness, drowsiness, dysgeusia, fatigue, headache, insomnia, peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Neurologic adverse reactions reported by patients receiving fostemsavir during clinical trials included headache (4%), fatigue or asthenia (3% to 7%), sleep disturbances [e.g., insomnia, sleep deficit, sleep disorder, abnormal dreams (3%)], and somnolence [drowsiness] (2%). Other adverse reactions occurring in less than 2% of drug recipients included dizziness, dysgeusia, and peripheral neuropathy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abnormal dreams
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash
    General Information
    During clinical trials, 3% of fostemsavir recipients developed a rash, and less than 2% experienced pruritus. Rashes were defined as generalized rash, maculopapular rash, pruritic rash, and dermatitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    myalgia
    General Information
    Less than 2% of patients treated with fostemsavir during clinical trials developed myalgia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    autoimmune disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, immune reconstitution syndrome
    General Information
    Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy. During the initial phase of HIV treatment, patients whose immune system responds to fostemsavir therapy may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), cytomegalovirus (CMV), Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis (TB)), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. In addition, autoimmune disease (including Graves' disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, autoimmune hepatitis, and polymyositis) may also develop; the time to onset is variable and may occur months after treatment initiation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      autoimmune disease
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      Guillain-Barre syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      immune reconstitution syndrome
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Fostemsavir is indicated for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents to treat heavily treatment-experienced adults with multidrug-resistant HIV-1 infections who are failing their current antiretroviral regimen due to resistance, intolerance, or safety considerations. Fostemsavir is the first approved HIV-1 attachment inhibitor, which works by binding to the glycoprotein 120 (gp120) subunit within the HIV-1 envelope and selectively inhibiting the interaction between the virus and cellular CD4 receptors. Health care providers are advised to consider potential drug interactions prior to and during treatment with fostemsavir because the drug is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and supratherapeutic doses have been associated with prolongation of the QT interval.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Fostemsavir is an orally administered prodrug of temsavir that has no antiviral activity. Temsavir is the active moiety that prevents attachment of HIV to CD4 cells by binding directly to the glycoprotein 120 (gp120) subunit within the HIV-1 envelope. By binding to gp120, temsavir selectively inhibits the interaction between the virus and cellular CD4 receptors, thereby preventing its attachment. Further, temsavir can inhibit gp120-dependent post-attachment steps required for viral entry into the host cell.
 
Temsavir displays activity against HIV-1 CCR5-tropic viruses, CXCR4-tropic viruses, and dual or mixed viruses with a 50% effective concentration (EC50) of 3.7 nanomolar (range: 0.3 to 345 nM), 40.9 nM (range: 0.6 to more than 2,000 nM), and 0.8 nM (range: 0.3 to 1.3 nM), respectively. Data indicated that subtype AE viruses are inherently less susceptible to temsavir. Genotyping of subtype AE viruses has identified polymorphisms at amino acid position S375H and M475I in gp120, which have been associated with reduced susceptibility to temsavir.
 
In clinical trials, virological failure through 96 weeks was observed in 25% (n = 51 of 203) of patients randomized to receive fostemsavir functional monotherapy. Of the evaluated patients with virologic failure, 55% had treatment-emergent gp120 genotypic substitutions at 4 sites (S375, M426, M434, and M475). The median EC50 change in evaluated patient isolates with emergent gp120 substitutions at positions 375, 426, 434, and 475 was 1,142-fold. The virologic failure rate in a nonrandomized cohort was higher at 51% (n = 50 of 99). The median EC50 change in the nonrandomized, evaluated patient isolates with emergent substitutions at positions 375, 426, 434, and 475 was 4,216-fold.
 
There has been no evidence of cross-resistance with representative medications from other antiretroviral classes, including INSTIs (raltegravir), NNRTIs (efavirenz, rilpivirine), NRTIs (abacavir, lamivudine, tenofovir, zidovudine), or PIs (atazanavir, darunavir). Temsavir retains activity against viruses resistant to these antiretrovirals, and these antiretrovirals retain activity against site-directed mutations with reduced temsavir susceptibility (S375M, M426L, M426L plus M475I). Temsavir is also active against viruses with resistance to enfuvirtide. Temsavir has reduced activity against some CCR5-tropic, maraviroc-resistant viruses, but no absolute correlation between maraviroc resistance and reduced temsavir susceptibility has been identified. Both enfuvirtide and maraviroc retain activity against clinical envelopes that have reduced temsavir susceptibility and contain S375H, M426L, M426L plus M475I substitutions. Fostemsavir and ibalizumab (a CD4-directed post-attachment inhibitor) both develop reduced susceptibility in gp120; however, temsavir is active against several ibalizumab-resistant viruses, and ibalizumab retains activity against site-directed mutations with reduced susceptibility to temsavir (S375M, M426L, M426L plus M475I). In the BRIGHTE study, one treatment-emergent substitution (gp120 E202) was observed in a single patient that can reduce susceptibility to temsavir and, depending on the sequence context of the envelope, can also result in reduced ibalizumab susceptibility.
 
Avoid the use of fostemsavir in patients with HIV-2, as limited data suggest HIV-2 is intrinsically resistant to temsavir. To identify the HIV strain, The 2014 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines for HIV diagnostic testing recommend initial HIV testing using an HIV-1/HIV-2 antigen/antibody combination immunoassay and subsequent testing using an HIV-1/HIV-2 antibody differentiation immunoassay.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, fostemsavir is generally undetectable in plasma; however, temsavir is readily absorbed. The absolute bioavailability of temsavir is 26.9% and the time to reach peak plasma concentration (Tmax) is 2 hours. Over a dosing range of 600 mg to 1,800 mg, the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and exposure (AUC) of temsavir increases in a dose-proportional or slightly greater than dose-proportional manner. Administration with a standard meal does not affect the AUC of temsavir as compared to the fasting state [AUC ratio = 1.10 (0.95 to 1.26)]; however, the AUC is increased when given with a high-fat meal [AUC ratio = 1.81 (1.54 to 2.12)].
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    No clinically relevant differences in the total and unbound temsavir pharmacokinetics have been observed in patients with any degree of hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A, B, or C).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No clinically relevant differences in the total and unbound temsavir pharmacokinetics have been observed in patients with renal impairment, including patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on hemodialysis. Temsavir is not readily cleared by hemodialysis, with approximately 12.3% of the administered dose being removed during a 4-hour hemodialysis session.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic data are limited in patients 65 years or older. Information from a population pharmacokinetic analysis of patients with HIV up to 73 years of age suggests age has no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of temsavir.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of temsavir have been observed based on gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of temsavir have been observed based on ethnicity (White patients, Black patients, Asian patients, or other ethnicities).
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Pregnancy
A physiologically based PK model predicted the pharmacokinetics of temsavir to decrease by 25% and 38% in the second and third trimesters, respectively. However, no dosage adjustments are needed as drug exposure remained within the range observed in non-pregnant adults.
  Text
  Fostemsavir is an orally administered prodrug of temsavir, the active moiety. Once in the systemic circulation, temsavir is 88.4% bound to plasma proteins (primarily albumin) and has a steady-state volume of distribution of 29.5 L; the blood-to-plasma ratio is 0.74. Metabolism primarily occurs through hydrolysis by esterases (36.1% of the administered dose) and oxidation by CYP3A4 (21.2% of the administered dose) to form 2 inactive metabolites, BMS-646915 and BMS-930644. Less than 1% of the administered dose is metabolized by uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferases (UGT). Metabolism is the major route of elimination with only 1.1% of the dose excreted unchanged in the feces and less than 2% of the dose excreted unchanged in the urine. The drug elimination half-life is 11 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), Breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), Organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP1B1/3)
Temsavir is a substrate of CYP3A4, esterases, P-gp, and BCRP. Drugs that induce or inhibit CYP3A4, P-gp, and BCRP may affect temsavir plasma concentrations. Additionally, temsavir is an inhibitor of BCRP, OATP1B1, and OATP1B3; thus, temsavir may affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are substrates of BCRP or OATP1B1/3.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
NOTE: Interruptions of therapy may be necessary for specific situations.
If an unanticipated short-term treatment interruption (i.e., less than 1 to 2 days) is necessary, it is generally recommended that all antiretroviral agents be discontinued simultaneously, especially if the interruption occurs in a pregnant patient or is because of serious toxicity.
If a short-term treatment interruption is anticipated, as in the case of elective surgery, consider the pharmacokinetic properties and food requirements of the specific antiretroviral medications. Stopping a treatment regimen containing medications with differing half-lives may result in functional monotherapy of the antiretroviral with the longest half-life and may increase the risk for resistant mutations.
Health care providers are advised to restart a complete and effective antiretroviral regimen as soon as possible after a short-term interruption of therapy.
Planned long-term treatment interruptions are not recommended due to the potential for HIV disease progression (i.e., declining CD4 counts, viral rebound, acute viral syndrome), development of minor HIV-associated manifestations or serious non-AIDS complications, development of drug resistance, increased risk of HIV transmission, and increased risk for opportunistic infections.
If therapy must be discontinued, counsel the patient on the potential risks and closely monitor for any clinical or laboratory abnormalities.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer with or without food.
Swallow the tablets whole. Do not chew, crush, or split the tablets.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1,200 mg per day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1,200 mg per day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
 
Hemodialysis
No dosage adjustments are needed. Temsavir, the active component of fostemsavir, is not significantly cleared by hemodialysis, with approximately 12.3% of the administered dose being removed during a 4-hour hemodialysis session.
