=== Lomitapide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3794)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Lomitapide is a microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) inhibitor indicated as an adjunct to a low-fat diet and exercise and other low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapies to reduce LDL-C in individuals with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 60 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): gastroesophageal reflux, tenesmus, weight loss, fever, influenza, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, dizziness, fatigue, headache, angina, chest pain (unspecified), palpitations

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, ethanol ingestion, hepatic disease, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity Lomitapide may cause hepatotoxicity, including elevations in hepatic... Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

Brand Names
  - Juxtapid

Dosage Forms
  - Juxtapid 10mg Capsule
  - JUXTAPID 20mg Capsule
  - Juxtapid 20mg Capsule
  - Juxtapid 2mg Capsule
  - Juxtapid 30mg Capsule
  - Juxtapid 30mg Capsule
  - Juxtapid 5mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Lomitapide is expected to lower LDL-C by 40% to 50%.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase dose to 10 mg PO once daily Weeks 3 to 6, then 20 mg PO once daily Weeks 7 to 10, then 40 mg PO once daily Weeks 11 to 14, then 60 mg PO once daily Weeks 15 and beyond. Max: 60 mg/day. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Adolescents 16 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        5 mg PO once daily, initially. May titrate to 10 mg PO once daily Weeks 5 to 8, then 20 mg PO once daily Weeks 9 to 12, then 40 mg PO once daily Weeks 13 and beyond. Max: 40 mg/day. If an individual crosses over into the next age group, increase the dosage based on new age group. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 11 to 15 years
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO once daily, initially. May titrate to 5 mg PO once daily Weeks 5 to 8, then 10 mg PO once daily Weeks 9 to 12, then 20 mg PO once daily Weeks 13 to 16, then 40 mg PO once daily Weeks 17 and beyond. Max: 40 mg/day. If an individual crosses over into the next age group, increase the dosage based on new age group. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children 9 to 10 years
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO once daily, initially. May titrate to 5 mg PO once daily Weeks 9 to 12, then 10 mg PO once daily Weeks 13 to 16, then 20 mg PO once daily Weeks 17 and beyond. Max: 20 mg/day. If an individual crosses over into the next age group, increase the dosage based on new age group. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children 2 to 8 years
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO once daily, initially. May titrate to 5 mg PO once daily Weeks 9 to 12, then 10 mg PO once daily Weeks 13 to 16, then 20 mg PO once daily Weeks 17 and beyond. Max: 20 mg/day. If an individual crosses over into the next age group, increase the dosage based on new age group. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia as an adjunct to a low-fat diet, exercise, and other lipid-lowering therapies

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, ethanol ingestion, hepatic disease, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Lomitapide may cause hepatotoxicity, including elevations in hepatic transaminases and increases in hepatic fat (hepatic steatosis). Lomitapide is contraindicated for use in individuals with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B and Child-Pugh class C), hepatic failure, or active hepatic disease, including unexplained persistent elevations in serum transaminases. Due to an increase in lomitapide concentrations, a lower maximum daily dose is recommended in individuals with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A). During the first year of therapy, measure liver function tests such as alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin before initiation of lomitapide therapy and prior to each increase in dose or monthly, whichever occurs first. After the first year of therapy, measure liver function tests at least every 3 months, prior to dose adjustment, or as clinically indicated. A reduction in lomitapide dose, temporarily withholding therapy, or discontinuation of treatment may be needed for abnormal or clinically significant elevations in transaminase concentrations. Ethanol ingestion may increase levels of hepatic fat and induce or exacerbate liver injury; individuals receiving lomitapide should not consume more than one alcoholic drink per day. Further, caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used concomitantly with medications with known hepatotoxicity potential (e.g., isotretinoin, amiodarone, methotrexate, tetracyclines, tamoxifen, and acetaminophen more than 4 g/day for more than 3 days of the week). More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
    Headline
    dialysis
    General Information
    Due to an approximate 50% increase in lomitapide exposure, a reduced maximum dose is recommended in individuals with end-stage renal disease receiving dialysis. Lomitapide has not been studied in individuals with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment, including end-stage renal disease not yet receiving dialysis.
    Headline
    malabsorption syndrome, pancreatic insufficiency
    General Information
    Use lomitapide with caution in individuals predisposed to malabsorption syndrome (e.g., chronic bowel or pancreatic insufficiency/disease). Due to lomitapide's mechanism of action in the small intestine, these individuals may be at an increased risk for deficiencies in fat-soluble nutrients with lomitapide therapy. Individuals receiving lomitapide should take daily supplements that contain 200 to 400 international units (IUs) vitamin E (depending on age), linoleic acid 200 mg or more, alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) 210 mg or more, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) 110 mg or more, and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) 80 mg or more during therapy.
    Headline
    congenital lactase deficiency, galactosemia, geriatric, glucose-galactose malabsorption
    General Information
    Avoid lomitapide use in individuals with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance (i.e., galactosemia), congenital lactase deficiency (e.g., the Lapp lactase deficiency), or glucose-galactose malabsorption, as use in these individuals may result in diarrhea and malabsorption. Severe diarrhea, including cases requiring hospitalization due to diarrhea-related complications such as hypovolemia, has been reported with postmarketing use of lomitapide. Monitor individuals who may be at risk for diarrhea-related complications, such as geriatric adults and those taking medications that may cause hypovolemia or hypotension. Advise individuals to contact their care team if severe diarrhea occurs, or they develop symptoms of volume depletion.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Lomitapide is contraindicated during pregnancy due to the potential for fetal harm. Findings from animal studies indicate that lomitapide is teratogenic. In reproductive toxicity studies, teratogenic effects were observed in rats at exposures comparable to those achieved clinically and in ferrets at exposures estimated to be lower than human therapeutic exposure at the 60 mg dose, based on AUC comparisons, when administered during organogenesis. In rabbits, embryo-fetal lethality occurred at exposures approximately 6 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 60 mg based on body surface area. If pregnancy occurs during treatment, lomitapide should be discontinued. A pregnancy exposure registry is available to monitor outcomes in patients exposed to lomitapide during pregnancy. Healthcare providers can obtain information about the registry at www.JUXTAPID.com or by calling 1-877-902-4099.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with lomitapide. Lomitapide may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception during treatment and for 2 weeks after the last dose. Lomitapide may reduce the effectiveness of oral contraceptives if vomiting or diarrhea occurs. Counsel people who experience vomiting or diarrhea to use an alternative effective method of contraception for 7 days after symptoms resolve.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding during the use of lomitapide because of the potential for serious adverse reactions, including hepatotoxicity, in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of lomitapide in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Lomitapide is contraindicated during pregnancy due to the potential for fetal harm. Findings from animal studies indicate that lomitapide is teratogenic. In reproductive toxicity studies, teratogenic effects were observed in rats at exposures comparable to those achieved clinically and in ferrets at exposures estimated to be lower than human therapeutic exposure at the 60 mg dose, based on AUC comparisons, when administered during organogenesis. In rabbits, embryo-fetal lethality occurred at exposures approximately 6 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 60 mg based on body surface area. If pregnancy occurs during treatment, lomitapide should be discontinued. A pregnancy exposure registry is available to monitor outcomes in patients exposed to lomitapide during pregnancy. Healthcare providers can obtain information about the registry at www.JUXTAPID.com or by calling 1-877-902-4099.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding during the use of lomitapide because of the potential for serious adverse reactions, including hepatotoxicity, in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of lomitapide in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Interactions
Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of adagrasib and lomitapide is contraindicated; if treatment with adagrasib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during treatment. Adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of lomitapide and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of lomitapide. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lomitapide and aliskiren may result in increased serum concentrations of aliskiren. According to the manufacturer of lomitapide, dose reduction of aliskiren should be considered during concurrent use. Lomitapide is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and aliskiren is a P-gp substrate.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lomitapide and aliskiren may result in increased serum concentrations of aliskiren. According to the manufacturer of lomitapide, dose reduction of aliskiren should be considered during concurrent use. Lomitapide is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and aliskiren is a P-gp substrate.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and alprazolam may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Alprazolam is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Amiodarone: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with amiodarone is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and amiodarone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
amLODIPine: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and atorvastatin may result in increased lomitapide concentrations. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Atorvastatin is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of clarithromycin and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with clarithromycin is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Markedly increased transaminases have been reported with coadministration. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of multi-day regimens of aprepitant with lomitapide is contraindicated; if treatment with multi-day aprepitant is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during treatment. Do not exceed a lomitapide dose of 30 mg if using with a single dose of aprepitant 125 mg or 40 mg. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. A strong inhibitor increased the exposure of lomitapide by 27-fold; therefore, the exposure to lomitapide will likely increase significantly in the presence of moderate inhibitors as well. When administered as a single oral or single intravenous dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak and did not result in a clinically significant increase in the AUC of a sensitive substrate.
Asciminib: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of atazanavir and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with atazanavir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Atazanavir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of atazanavir and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with atazanavir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Atazanavir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of cobicistat and lomitapide is contraindicated due to the potential of markedly increased lomitapide concentrations and the associated elevation of serum transaminases. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Atorvastatin: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and atorvastatin may result in increased lomitapide concentrations. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Atorvastatin is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Avacopan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of avacopan and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with avacopan is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Belumosudil: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Berotralstat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of berotralstat and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with berotralstat is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Bicalutamide: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and bicalutamide may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Bicalutamide is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lomitapide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lenacapavir and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with lenacapavir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Bile acid sequestrants: (Moderate) Separate administration of lomitapide and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours. Although this interaction has not been studied, bile acid sequestrants can interfere with the absorption of oral medications.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as tetracyclines. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as tetracyclines. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Capivasertib: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with capivasertib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and capivasertib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ceritinib and lomitapide is contraindicated; if treatment with ceritinib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during treatment. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Separate administration of lomitapide and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours. Although this interaction has not been studied, bile acid sequestrants can interfere with the absorption of oral medications.
Cilostazol: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and cilostazol may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Cilostazol is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Cimetidine: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and cimetidine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Cimetidine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Ciprofloxacin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with ciprofloxacin is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of clarithromycin and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with clarithromycin is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Markedly increased transaminases have been reported with coadministration. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of cobicistat and lomitapide is contraindicated due to the potential of markedly increased lomitapide concentrations and the associated elevation of serum transaminases. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and lomitapide due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) Separate administration of lomitapide and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours. Although this interaction has not been studied, bile acid sequestrants can interfere with the absorption of oral medications.
Colestipol: (Moderate) Separate administration of lomitapide and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours. Although this interaction has not been studied, bile acid sequestrants can interfere with the absorption of oral medications.
Conivaptan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of conivaptan and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with conivaptan is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of crizotinib and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with crizotinib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and cyclosporine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Cyclosporine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lomitapide and dabigatran may result in increased serum concentrations of dabigatran. According to the manufacturer of lomitapide, dose reduction of dabigatran should be considered during concurrent use. Lomitapide is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and dabigatran is a P-gp substrate.
Dabrafenib: (Major) The concomitant use of dabrafenib and lomitapide may lead to decreased lomitapide concentrations and loss of efficacy. Use of an alternative agent is recommended. If concomitant use of these agents together is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of lomitapide efficacy. Dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and lomitapide is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use of dabrafenib with a single dose of another sensitive CYP3A4 substrate decreased the AUC value of the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate by 65%.
Danazol: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with danazol is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and danazol is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with lomitapide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Daridorexant: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with daridorexant is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and daridorexant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of darunavir and lomitapide is contraindicated due to the potential for markedly increased lomitapide concentrations and the associated elevation of serum transaminases. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of cobicistat and lomitapide is contraindicated due to the potential of markedly increased lomitapide concentrations and the associated elevation of serum transaminases. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of darunavir and lomitapide is contraindicated due to the potential for markedly increased lomitapide concentrations and the associated elevation of serum transaminases. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of cobicistat and lomitapide is contraindicated due to the potential of markedly increased lomitapide concentrations and the associated elevation of serum transaminases. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of darunavir and lomitapide is contraindicated due to the potential for markedly increased lomitapide concentrations and the associated elevation of serum transaminases. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lomitapide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Demeclocycline: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as tetracyclines. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lomitapide and digoxin may result in increased serum concentrations of digoxin. According to the manufacturer of lomitapide, dose reduction of digoxin should be considered during concurrent use. Lomitapide is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and digoxin is a P-gp substrate.
dilTIAZem: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of diltiazem and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with diltiazem is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use.
Doxycycline: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as tetracyclines. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Drospirenone: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Duvelisib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of duvelisib and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with duvelisib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering lomitapide with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated lomitapide plasma concentrations. Lomitapide is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of cobicistat and lomitapide is contraindicated due to the potential of markedly increased lomitapide concentrations and the associated elevation of serum transaminases. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lomitapide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of cobicistat and lomitapide is contraindicated due to the potential of markedly increased lomitapide concentrations and the associated elevation of serum transaminases. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lomitapide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lomitapide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with lomitapide due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and lomitapide is contraindicated; if treatment with ensitrelvir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lomitapide and sitagliptin may result in increased serum concentrations of sitagliptin. According to the manufacturer of lomitapide, dose reduction of sitagliptin should be considered during concurrent use. Lomitapide is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and sitagliptin is a P-gp substrate.
Erythromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of erythromycin and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with erythromycin is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Ethanol: (Major) Alcohol may increase levels of hepatic fat and induce or exacerbate liver injury. Patients taking lomitapide should not consume more than one alcohol-containing drink per day.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Everolimus: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with everolimus is necessary; concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Also, monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions. Everolimus is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; lomitapide is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and a P-gp inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Major) Reduce the simvastatin dose by 50% when starting lomitapide due to an increased risk for myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. In patients taking lomitapide, do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 20 mg/day in general, or 40 mg/day in patients who have previously tolerated simvastatin 80 mg/day for at least 1 year without evidence of muscle toxicity. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on lomitapide, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of lomitapide and simvastatin against the potential risks. Lomitapide increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Fedratinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fedratinib and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with fedratinib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Finerenone: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fluconazole and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with fluconazole is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and fluoxetine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Fluoxetine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
fluvoxaMINE: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lomitapide, a CYP3A4 substrate, and moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as fluvoxamine, is contraindicated due to the potential for lomitapide toxicity.
Fosamprenavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fosamprenavir and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with fosamprenavir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with gepotidacin is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and gepotidacin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and ginkgo, ginkgo biloba may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Ginkgo, ginkgo biloba is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Givinostat: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with givinostat is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and givinostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Grapefruit juice: (Contraindicated) Grapefruit juice must be omitted from the diet during lomitapide therapy. Grapefruit juice inhibits the enterocyte CYP3A4 isoenzyme and may decrease lomitapide metabolism.
Imatinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of imatinib, STI-571 and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with imatinib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use.
Isavuconazonium: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with isavuconazonium is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and isoniazid, INH may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Isoniazid, INH is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
ISOtretinoin: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as isotretinoin. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Istradefylline: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Lomitapide is contraindicated for use during and for 2 weeks after itraconazole therapy. Itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ivosidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of lomitapide during coadministration of ivosidenib; a lomitapide dose adjustment may be necessary. Lomitapide is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; ivosidenib induces CYP3A4 and may lead to decreased lomitapide concentrations.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ketoconazole and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with ketoconazole is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of clarithromycin and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with clarithromycin is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Markedly increased transaminases have been reported with coadministration. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
Lapatinib: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with lapatinib is necessary; also monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lapatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor and a CYP3A4 substrate. The exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely when administered with P-gp inhibitors.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with larotrectinib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Larotrectinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lazertinib: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lefamulin: (Major) Concomitant use of oral lefamulin and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with oral lefamulin is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lenacapavir and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with lenacapavir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of lomitapide and letermovir is contraindicated due to the potential for increased lomitapide exposure and adverse events. If treatment with letermovir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during letermovir treatment. Coadministration may increase lomitapide concentration and risk for adverse events. Lomitapide is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levamlodipine: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ketoconazole and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with ketoconazole is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lonafarnib and lomitapide is contraindicated; if treatment with lonafarnib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure by approximately 27-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with lomitapide. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with lomitapide. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with ritonavir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lovastatin: (Major) The risk of developing myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis may be increased if lovastatin is administered concomitantly with lomitapide. Consider reducing the dose of lovastatin when initiating lomitapide. Although the interaction between lovastatin and lomitapide has not been studied, coadministration of lomitapide and simvastatin approximately doubles the exposure to simvastatin. Because the metabolizing enzymes and transporters responsible for the disposition of lovastatin and simvastatin are similar, increased exposure to lovastatin should also be expected.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of lomitapide by decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, monitor patients closely for loss of lomitapide efficacy; a lomitapide dosage adjustment may be required to obtain the desired therapeutic effect. Lomitapide is a substrate of CYP3A4; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of lomitapide by decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, monitor patients closely for loss of lomitapide efficacy; a lomitapide dosage adjustment may be required to obtain the desired therapeutic effect. Lomitapide is a substrate of CYP3A4; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lomitapide and maraviroc may result in increased serum concentrations of maraviroc. According to the manufacturer of lomitapide, dose reduction of maraviroc should be considered during concurrent use. Lomitapide is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and maraviroc is a P-gp substrate.
Maribavir: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half (not to exceed 30 mg/day PO) and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of other weak CYP3A inhibitors.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lomitapide and sitagliptin may result in increased serum concentrations of sitagliptin. According to the manufacturer of lomitapide, dose reduction of sitagliptin should be considered during concurrent use. Lomitapide is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and sitagliptin is a P-gp substrate.
Methotrexate: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as methotrexate. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Minocycline: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as tetracyclines. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Naldemedine: (Major) Monitor for potential naldemedine-related adverse reactions and consider dose reduction of naldemedine if coadministered with lomitapide. The plasma concentrations of naldemedine may be increased during concurrent use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; lomitapide is a moderate P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and lomitapide. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of nefazodone and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with nefazodone is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of nelfinavir and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with nelfinavir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of nilotinib and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with nilotinib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with ritonavir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and lomitapide is contraindicated due to the potential for hepatotoxicity and gastrointestinal adverse reactions. Consider temporary discontinuation of lomitapide during treatment with ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and for at least 2 to 3 days after treatment completion; if not feasible, consider alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase lomitapide exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of nirogacestat and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with nirogacestat is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Norethindrone: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Norgestrel: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and fluoxetine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Fluoxetine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Omadacycline: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as tetracyclines. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Oral Contraceptives: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half (not to exceed 30 mg/day PO) if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Palbociclib: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and palbociclib may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Palbociclib is a weak, time-dependent CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and pazopanib may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Pazopanib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with pirtobrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Pirtobrutinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of posaconazole and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with posaconazole is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lomitapide with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Primaquine: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with primaquine is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and primaquine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and lomitapide due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and ranolazine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Ranolazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, concomitant use may result in increased serum concentrations of ranolazine. According to the manufacturer of lomitapide, dose reduction of ranolazine should be considered during concurrent use. Lomitapide is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and ranolazine is a P-gp substrate.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of relacorilant and lomitapide is contraindicated; if treatment with relacorilant is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral lomitapide. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer lomitapide at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral lomitapide. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer lomitapide at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Remdesivir: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with remdesivir is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and remdesivir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with lomitapide due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ribociclib and lomitapide is contraindicated; if treatment with ribociclib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during treatment. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ribociclib and lomitapide is contraindicated; if treatment with ribociclib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during treatment. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lomitapide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilzabrutinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with rilzabrutinib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with lomitapide; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritlecitinib and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with ritlecitinib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with ritonavir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Rucaparib: (Major) The lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg per day PO during concurrent use with rucaparib. Lomitapide is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4 and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of saquinavir and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with saquinavir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Sarecycline: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as tetracyclines. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and oral contraceptives may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Oral Contraceptives are weak CYP3A4 inhibitors; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. In addition, females of reproductive potential must use effective contraception during lomitapide therapy. Because vomiting and diarrhea have been frequently reported during lomitapide therapy and hormone absorption from oral contraceptives may be incomplete in the presence of vomiting or diarrhea, warn patients that the use of additional contraceptive methods is warranted if vomiting or diarrhea occur.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with selpercatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Selpercatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Simvastatin: (Major) Reduce the simvastatin dose by 50% when starting lomitapide due to an increased risk for myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. In patients taking lomitapide, do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 20 mg/day in general, or 40 mg/day in patients who have previously tolerated simvastatin 80 mg/day for at least 1 year without evidence of muscle toxicity. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on lomitapide, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of lomitapide and simvastatin against the potential risks. Lomitapide increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of lomitapide. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lomitapide and sitagliptin may result in increased serum concentrations of sitagliptin. According to the manufacturer of lomitapide, dose reduction of sitagliptin should be considered during concurrent use. Lomitapide is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and sitagliptin is a P-gp substrate.
Spironolactone: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with spironolactone is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Spironolactone is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with spironolactone is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Spironolactone is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of lomitapide when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of lomitapide resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Lomitapide is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lomitapide is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lomitapide is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lomitapide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tetracycline: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as tetracyclines. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Tetracyclines: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as tetracyclines. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with ticagrelor is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and ticagrelor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of tipranavir boosted with ritonavir and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with tipranavir boosted with ritonavir is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Tipranavir boosted with ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lomitapide with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; lomitapide may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of verapamil and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with verapamil is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use.
Treosulfan: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with treosulfan is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and treosulfan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Trofinetide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of tucatinib and lomitapide is contraindicated; if treatment with tucatinib is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during treatment. Tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with lomitapide. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with lomitapide due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of lomitapide. Venetoclax is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Verapamil: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of verapamil and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with verapamil is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use.
Viloxazine: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with vonoprazan is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with vonoprazan is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of clarithromycin and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with clarithromycin is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Markedly increased transaminases have been reported with coadministration. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and lomitapide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lomitapide exposure approximately 27-fold. (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with vonoprazan is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of voriconazole and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with voriconazole is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Voxelotor: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of voxelotor and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with voxelotor is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Major) Coadministration of warfarin and lomitapide results in increased serum concentrations of warfarin. Monitor the INR regularly, especially after dose adjustments of lomitapide and adjust the warfarin dose as clinically indicated during concurrent use. Lomitapide increases the plasma concentrations of both R-warfarin and S-warfarin by approximately 30% and the INR by 22%. In the lomitapide clinical trials, difficulty controlling INR led to early discontinuation in 1 of 5 patients receiving concomitant warfarin therapy.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastroesophageal reflux, nausea, tenesmus, vomiting, weight loss
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal-related adverse reactions were reported frequently with lomitapide therapy and were severe in some cases. In the clinical trial of adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), gastrointestinal-related adverse reactions included: diarrhea (79% all severity; 14% severe), vomiting (34% all severity; 10% severe), and abdominal pain (34% all severity; 7% severe), abdominal distension (21% all severity; 7% severe), and/or abdominal discomfort (21% all severity; 7% severe). Other commonly reported gastrointestinal adverse reactions included: nausea (65%), dyspepsia (38%), weight loss (24%), constipation (21%), flatulence (21%), gastroenteritis (14%), gastroesophageal reflux disease (10%), defecation urgency (10%), and rectal tenesmus (10%). In pediatric patients, 72% of individuals reported gastrointestinal reactions during a clinical trial. Diarrhea (51%), abdominal pain (53%), vomiting (28%), decreased appetite/anorexia (14%), and nausea (12%) were reported. Vomiting occurred more frequently in individuals aged 5 to 10 years (50%) compared with individuals aged 11 to 17 years (9%). Individuals should adhere to a low-fat diet supplying less than 20% of energy from fat or less than 30 grams of fat, whichever is less, and gradually increase the dosage of lomitapide to reduce the risk of gastrointestinal adverse events. Absorption of concomitant oral medications may be affected if patients develop diarrhea or vomiting. Postmarketing reports of severe diarrhea, some requiring hospitalization due to complications such as volume depletion, have been reported with the use of lomitapide. Monitor patients who are susceptible to complications from diarrhea, such as older patients and patients taking concomitant drugs that can result in volume depletion or hypotension. Instruct individuals to contact their health care provider immediately if they develop severe diarrhea or if they experience symptoms of volume depletion such as lightheadedness, decreased urine output, or tiredness. In such cases, consider reducing or suspending lomitapide therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tenesmus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    steatosis
    General Information
    Lomitapide increases hepatic fat, with or without concomitant increases in transaminases. Among the 23 adult patients with evaluable data, 18 (78%) exhibited an increase in hepatic fat greater than 5% and 3 (13%) exhibited an increase greater than 20% on at least 1 occasion during the trial. The median absolute increase in hepatic fat was 6% after both 26 and 78 weeks of treatment, from 1% at baseline as measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Among the 19 pediatric patients with evaluable data, 8 (42%) exhibited an increase in hepatic fat greater than 10% including 1 individual (5%) with an increase to greater than 20% on at least 1 occasion during the trial. The median absolute increase in hepatic fat was 4% after 24 weeks and 104 weeks from 3% at baseline as measured by nuclear magnetic resonance. Hepatic steatosis associated with lomitapide treatment may be a risk factor for progressive liver disease, including steatohepatitis and cirrhosis. Clinical data suggest that hepatic fat accumulation in both adult and pediatric patients is reversible upon discontinuation of lomitapide; however, it is unknown if histological sequelae remain, especially after long-term use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      steatosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypovitaminosis
    General Information
    Lomitapide may reduce the absorption of fat-soluble nutrients and increase the risk of hypovitaminosis due to its mechanism of action in the small intestine. In clinical trials, adults and pediatric patients were provided daily dietary supplements of vitamin E, linoleic acid, alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). In the adult clinical trial, median concentrations of serum vitamin E, ALA, linoleic acid, EPA, DHA, and arachidonic acid decreased from baseline during treatment but remained above the lower limit of the reference range, and no adverse clinical consequences were observed over up to 78 weeks. In the pediatric patients treated for up to 104 weeks, mean vitamin E concentrations decreased but remained within or above the reference range, and mean essential fatty acid concentrations were generally maintained within normal limits. Individuals treated with lomitapide should take daily supplements that contain 200 to 400 international units of vitamin E (depending on age) and at least 200 mg linoleic acid, 210 mg ALA, 110 mg EPA, and 80 mg DHA.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypovitaminosis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Lomitapide can cause elevated hepatic enzymes. In the homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) clinical trial, 34% (10/29) of adult patients treated with lomitapide had at least 1 elevation in ALT or AST 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or greater and 14% (4/29) of patients had at least 1 elevation in ALT or AST 5 times the ULN or greater. No clinically meaningful elevations in total bilirubin or alkaline phosphatase were observed. Increased ALT or hepatotoxicity of severe intensity was reported in 10% of patients. Transaminases typically fell within 1 to 4 weeks of reducing the dose or withholding lomitapide. During an extension trial, 1 individual discontinued treatment because of increased transaminases that persisted despite several dose reductions and 1 temporarily discontinued treatment because of elevated transaminases that had several possible causes, including a drug interaction with clarithromycin. In pediatric trials, 53% of individuals experienced elevations in transaminases of any magnitude. Fourteen percent of individuals (age 5 to 17 years) experienced elevations in AST and/or ALT 3 times the ULN or greater and 2 individuals (5%) had at least 1 elevation in ALT 5 times the ULN or greater. No clinically meaningful elevations in total bilirubin or alkaline phosphatase were observed. Measure ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin prior to initiation of therapy. During the first year, measure liver-related tests (ALT and AST, at a minimum) monthly or prior to each increase in dose, whichever occurs first. After the first year, monitor at least every 3 months and before any increase in dose. Modify the lomitapide dose if elevations of transaminases are observed. Discontinue lomitapide if elevations are persistent or clinically significant. If transaminase elevations are accompanied by clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity (such as nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, pyrexia, jaundice, lethargy, flu-like symptoms), increases in bilirubin 2 times the ULN or greater, or active liver disease, discontinue treatment and identify the probable cause.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever, influenza, nasal congestion, pharyngitis
    General Information
    Influenza (21%), naso-pharyngitis (17%), fever (10%), pharyngolaryngeal pain (14%), and nasal congestion (10%) were reported in adult patients during a clinical trial of lomitapide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, fatigue, headache
    General Information
    CNS-related adverse reactions reported in adult patients during the clinical trial of lomitapide include fatigue (17%), headache (10%), and dizziness (10%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angina, chest pain (unspecified), palpitations
    General Information
    Cardiovascular-related adverse reactions reported in adult patients during the clinical trial of lomitapide include: chest pain (unspecified) (24%), angina (10%), and palpitations (10%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    back pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Back pain was reported at an incidence of 14% in adult patients during a clinical trial of lomitapide. Myalgia has been reported during postmarketing use; however, frequency and causality have not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    alopecia
    General Information
    Alopecia has been reported during postmarketing use; however, frequency and causality have not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Lomitapide is a microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) inhibitor indicated as an adjunct to a low-fat diet and exercise and other low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapies to reduce LDL-C in individuals with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). HoFH is a rare genetic disorder characterized by markedly impaired clearance of LDL cholesterol from the bloodstream. The safety and efficacy of lomitapide has not been established in individuals with hypercholesterolemia who do not have HoFH. Lomitapide directly binds and inhibits MTP, preventing the assembly of apo-B-containing lipoproteins and thereby inhibiting the synthesis of chylomicrons and very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL). Reduced VLDL production results in decreased plasma LDL-C concentrations. Lomitapide has a boxed warning for hepatotoxicity. Liver function tests are required prior to initiation and periodically during treatment. Lomitapide was FDA-approved in 2012.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Lomitapide directly binds to and inhibits microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. This prevents the assembly of apolipoprotein B (apo B)-containing lipoproteins in enterocytes and hepatocytes, thereby inhibiting the synthesis of chylomicrons and very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL). Inhibition of VLDL synthesis leads to reduced concentrations of plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of lomitapide are approximately dose-proportional for single oral doses from 10 to 100 mg. After oral administration of a 60 mg dose of lomitapide, peak plasma concentrations are reached in about 6 hours in healthy volunteers. The absolute bioavailability is approximately 7%. In adults, the predicted median AUC and Cmax at the maximum dose of lomitapide 60 mg were 116.34 nanograms x hour/mL and 5.74 nanograms/mL.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The lomitapide AUC and Cmax were 164% and 361% higher, respectively, in adult individuals with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) compared with adult healthy volunteers. In adult individuals with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A), lomitapide AUC and Cmax were 47% and 4% higher, respectively, compared with healthy volunteers. Lomitapide has not been studied in individuals with severe hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The lomitapide AUC and Cmax were 40% and 50% higher, respectively, in adult patients with end-stage renal disease receiving hemodialysis compared with healthy adult volunteers. Effects of mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment as well as end-stage renal disease not yet on dialysis on lomitapide exposure have not been studied.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    16 to 17 years:
The predicted median AUC and Cmax at the maximum dose of lomitapide 40 mg were 201.11 nanograms x hour/mL and 9.95 nanograms/mL.
 
11 to 15 years:
The predicted median AUC and Cmax at the maximum dose of lomitapide 40 mg were 240.48 nanograms x hour/mL and 12.16 nanograms/mL.
 
5 to 10 years: 
The predicted median AUC and Cmax at the maximum dose of lomitapide 20 mg were 142.57 nanograms x hour/mL and 7.33 nanograms/mL.
 
2 to 4 years:
The predicted median AUC and Cmax at the maximum dose of lomitapide 20 mg were 213.62 nanograms x hour/mL and 11.11 nanograms/mL.
  Text
  Lomitapide is administered orally. The drug is 99.8% plasma protein bound. The Vd at steady state is 985 to 1,292 L. Lomitapide undergoes extensive hepatic metabolism. It is primarily metabolized to its major metabolites, M1 and M3, via cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4; also, CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, and CYP2C19 may metabolize lomitapide to a small extent to M1. M1 is the moiety that retains the piperidine ring, whereas M3 retains the rest of the lomitapide molecule in vitro. Neither M1 nor M3 inhibits microsomal triglyceride transfer protein activity in vitro. Up to 60% of a dose is excreted in the urine, primarily as M1. Approximately 35% is excreted in the feces, with lomitapide as the major component. The mean terminal half-life of lomitapide is 39.7 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-gp
Lomitapide inhibits CYP3A4 and P-gp. Lomitapide and its metabolites (M1 and M3) do not induce CYP1A2, CYP3A4, or CYP2B6. Lomitapide does not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, or BCRP. M1 and M3 do not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 or CYP3A4. Lomitapide is not a P-gp substrate.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer without food at least 2 hours after the evening meal; administration with food may increase the risk of gastrointestinal adverse reactions.
Administer with a glass of water.
Swallow capsules whole. If a patient is unable to swallow a capsule:
Open the capsule and sprinkle the contents on 1 tablespoon of apple sauce or mashed banana.
For younger patients who require a smaller spoon for administration, sprinkle the contents onto 1 tablespoon of apple sauce or mashed banana, and administer the entire amount using a smaller spoon.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, administer the normal dose at the usual time the next day. If dosing is interrupted for more than a week, advise individuals or caregivers to contact the health care provider before restarting treatment.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    60 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    60 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    40 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    11 years: 40 mg/day PO.
2 to 10 years: 20 mg/day PO.
1 year: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Child-Pugh A (mild hepatic impairment):
18 years and older: Do not exceed 40 mg/day PO.
11 to 17 years: Do not exceed 30 mg/day PO.
2 to 10 years: Do not exceed 15 mg/day PO.
Child-Pugh B or C (moderate or severe hepatic impairment): Use is contraindicated.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl more than 80 mL/min: No dosage adjustment is needed.
CrCl 80 mL/min or less: Data to guide dosage adjustment recommendations in individuals with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment, including those with end-stage renal disease not yet receiving dialysis, are not available. It is possible that patients with renal impairment who are not yet receiving dialysis may experience a 50% or greater increase in lomitapide exposure.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Individuals with end-stage renal disease (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2) receiving hemodialysis:
18 years and older: Do not exceed 40 mg/day PO.
11 to 17 years: Do not exceed 30 mg/day PO.
2 to 10 years: Do not exceed 15 mg/day PO.
