=== Loperamide/Simethicone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2433)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 8 mg/24 hours PO loperamide; 500 mg/24 hours PO simethicone.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, drowsiness, headache, anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bullous rash, erythema multiforme, pruritus, rash (unspecified), stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria

In an Overdose: Most incidents of ileus have occurred in cases of overdose, acute dysentery, or in children under the age of 2 years. These intentional overdoses, along with elevated loperamide concentrations resulting from drug interactions, have been associated with at least 48 cases of loperamide-induced cardiac events.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Treatment of diarrhea with loperamide is only symptomatic.

Brand Names
  - Imodium Advanced
  - Imodium Multi-Symptom Relief

Dosage Forms
  - Equaline anti-diarrheal/anti-gas 2mg-125mg Caplet
  - Foster & Thrive Anti-Diarrheal/Anti-Gas 2mg-125mg Caplet
  - GNP Anti-Diarrheal/Anti-gas 2mg-125mg Caplet
  - GoodSense Anti-Diarrheal/Anti-gas 2mg-125mg Caplet
  - Imodium Multi-Symptom Relief 2mg-125mg Caplet
  - Loperamide Hydrochloride 2mg, Simethicone 125mg Oral tablet
  - Walgreens Anti-Diarrheal + Anti-Gas 2mg-125mg Caplet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (caplets or chewable tablets with loperamide 2 mg and simethicone 125 mg)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults and Children >= 12 years
        Dosage Description
        2 caplets/tablets PO after first loose stool, then 1 caplet/tablet after each subsequent loose stool. Swallow caplets whole with water; chew and swallow the chewable tablets with 4 to 8 oz water. Maximum 4 caplets/tablets per 24 hours.
        Heading
        Children 9 to 11 years (60 to 95 pounds)
        Dosage Description
        1 caplet/tablet PO after first loose stool, then one-half caplet/tablet after each subsequent loose stool. Swallow caplet whole with water; chew and swallow the chewable tablet with 4 to 8 oz water. Maximum 3 caplets/tablets per 24 hours.
        Heading
        Children 6 to 8 years (48 to 59 pounds)
        Dosage Description
        1 caplet/tablet PO after first loose stool, then one-half caplet/tablet after each subsequent loose stool. Swallow caplet whole with water; chew and swallow the chewable tablet with 4 to 8 oz water. Maximum 2 caplets/tablets per 24 hours.
    Heading
    For self-treatment of acute diarrhea accompanied by bloating, cramps, pressure or flatulence

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Treatment of diarrhea with loperamide is only symptomatic. Whenever an underlying etiology can be determined, specific treatment should be given when appropriate (or when indicated).
Fluid and electrolyte depletion often occur in patients who have diarrhea. In such cases, administration of appropriate fluid and electrolytes is very important. The use of loperamide does not preclude the need for appropriate fluid and electrolyte therapy.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use loperamide; simethicone with caution in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias; these patients should check with their care team before use. Cases of torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest, and death have been reported with the use of a higher than recommended dosage of loperamide. Use loperamide; simethicone with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Counsel patients not to exceed dosage limits and to stop loperamide and seek medical attention for any of the following: diarrhea that lasts more than 2 days, abnormal swelling or bulging, fainting, rapid or irregular heart beat, or if the patient becomes unresponsive. If drug toxicity is suspected, obtain loperamide serum concentrations and initiate necessary treatment with medications, electrical pacing, or cardioversion. Of note, standard opioid drug screens do not include an assay for loperamide, so testing for loperamide drug concentrations must be specifically requested. Health care providers are urged to report any potential loperamide-associated adverse event to the FDA MedWatch program.
    Headline
    bacterial enterocolitis, dysentery, fever, pseudomembranous colitis, ulcerative colitis
    General Information
    Loperamide; simethiconse should not be used as the primary therapy for diarrhea in patients with acute dysentery (diarrhea with blood in stools and high fever), in people with acute ulcerative colitis, in patients with bacterial enterocolitis caused by invasive organisms including Salmonella, Shigella, and Campylobacter, or in those with pseudomembranous colitis associated with the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics. In general, loperamide should not be used when inhibition of peristalsis is to be avoided due to the possible risk of significant sequelae including ileus, megacolon and toxic megacolon. Loperamide must be discontinued promptly when constipation, abdominal distention or ileus develop. Patients with fever, blood, or mucus in the stool should not self-treat but should seek medical professional evaluation and advice prior to loperamide nonprescription use.
    Headline
    abdominal pain, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)
    General Information
    Loperamide use is contraindicated in patients with abdominal pain in the absence of diarrhea. Patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) treated with loperamide for diarrhea should have therapy stopped at the earliest signs of abdominal distention. There have been isolated reports of toxic megacolon in AIDS patients with infectious colitis from both viral and bacterial pathogens treated with loperamide.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Although no pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with hepatic impairment, loperamide; simethicone should be used with caution in such patients because of reduced first pass metabolism. Patients with hepatic failure or impairment should be monitored closely for signs of CNS toxicity.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Loperamide; simethicone may aggravate tiredness, dizziness, or drowsiness during the diarrheal syndrome; therefore patients taking loperamide should be advised to avoid driving or operating machinery and activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of the drug are known.
    Headline
    children, infants, neonates
    General Information
    Loperamide is contraindicated for use in neonates, infants, or children younger than 2 years due to variable responses in this age group, and an increased risk for respiratory depression and serious cardiac events. Serious cardiac events (i.e., syncope, hypoventilation, ventricular tachycardia) have been reported to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) after off-label use in pediatric patients younger than 2 years. The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes loperamide as a potentially inappropriate medication for use in neonates, infants, and children younger than 3 years and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use loperamide; simethicone with caution and appropriate monitoring.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate, well-controlled studies of loperamide; simethicone use during human pregnancy. In animal studies, loperamide was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits at exposures up to 5 and 43 times the human dose, respectively, based on body surface area. The American Gastroenterological Association considers loperamide low risk for use during pregnancy, although a possible increased risk of cardiovascular defects has been noted. In one prospective controlled surveillance study of 108 newborns exposed to loperamide during gestation, 6 major birth defects were reported, including 3 cardiovascular defects; the authors concluded that an increased risk of major malformations was unlikely. In a separate epidemiologic study, early-pregnancy loperamide exposure was associated with an increased risk of any congenital malformation (OR 1.43, 95% CI 1.04 to 1.96), although no specific malformation pattern was identified. A significantly increased risk of hypospadias was reported based on 7 cases (RR 3.2, 95% CI 1.3 to 6.6), along with increased risks of placenta previa, large-for-gestational-age infants, and cesarean delivery. The authors concluded that early-pregnancy exposure may carry a moderate risk. Simethicone is not systemically absorbed, and is generally considered safe for use during pregnancy.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Loperamide; simethicone is compatible with breast-feeding. Loperamide is present in human milk in minimal amounts, with a relative infant dose of 0.03%. Short-term use of loperamide at standard dosing is unlikely to cause adverse effects in the breastfed child. Simethicone is not absorbed orally and, therefore, is not transferred to human milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate, well-controlled studies of loperamide; simethicone use during human pregnancy. In animal studies, loperamide was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits at exposures up to 5 and 43 times the human dose, respectively, based on body surface area. The American Gastroenterological Association considers loperamide low risk for use during pregnancy, although a possible increased risk of cardiovascular defects has been noted. In one prospective controlled surveillance study of 108 newborns exposed to loperamide during gestation, 6 major birth defects were reported, including 3 cardiovascular defects; the authors concluded that an increased risk of major malformations was unlikely. In a separate epidemiologic study, early-pregnancy loperamide exposure was associated with an increased risk of any congenital malformation (OR 1.43, 95% CI 1.04 to 1.96), although no specific malformation pattern was identified. A significantly increased risk of hypospadias was reported based on 7 cases (RR 3.2, 95% CI 1.3 to 6.6), along with increased risks of placenta previa, large-for-gestational-age infants, and cesarean delivery. The authors concluded that early-pregnancy exposure may carry a moderate risk. Simethicone is not systemically absorbed, and is generally considered safe for use during pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Loperamide; simethicone is compatible with breast-feeding. Loperamide is present in human milk in minimal amounts, with a relative infant dose of 0.03%. Short-term use of loperamide at standard dosing is unlikely to cause adverse effects in the breastfed child. Simethicone is not absorbed orally and, therefore, is not transferred to human milk.

Interactions
Abrocitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with abrocitinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib and loperamide due to the potential for increased loperamide exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If use is necessary, monitor for loperamide-related adverse effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Loperamide is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 2- to 3-fold.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Use alosetron with caution and monitoring in patients taking additional medications that may reduce gastric motility, including antidiarrheals, due to increased risk for serious complications of constipation.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of loperamide, further increasing the risk for cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, cardiac arrest) and other loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and artemether; lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with atazanavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with atazanavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects, such as CNS depression. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate, azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Bedaquiline: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Bedaquiline has also been reported to prolong the QT interval. Coadministration may result in additive or synergistic prolongation of the QT interval. Monitor the ECG.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Both antidiarrheals and anticholinergics, such as benztropine, decrease GI motility. Use of these drugs together may produce additive effects on the GI track; thereby increasing the risk for toxic megacolon.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with lenacapavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with brigatinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and brigatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest) if coadministered with cannabidiol. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with capmatinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with carvedilol. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and carvedilol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Ceritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and ceritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with chloramphenicol. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with loperamide due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine may inhibit the effect of loperamide, which may be the result of binding in the GI tract. A causal relationship has not been established; however, loperamide should be administered at least 2 hours apart from cholestyramine until the significance of this interaction is known.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and ciprofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because high doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest, coadministration is contraindicated.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of citalopram and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
cloZAPine: (Major) Loperamide should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with clozapine. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death. The manufacturer of clozapine recommends caution during concurrent use with medications known to cause QT prolongation. In addition, both drugs may decrease gastrointestinal (GI) motility; concurrent use could produce additive GI effects and induce toxic megacolon. If these drugs are given together, monitor for prolongation of the QT interval and for signs of impaired intestinal motility.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with conivaptan. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and conivaptan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of crizotinib and loperamide due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib is has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Crofelemer: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between crofelemer and other antidiarrheals are theoretically possible. Crofelemer does not affect GI motility mechanisms, but does have antidiarrheal effects. Patients taking antidiarrheal medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from crofelemer, such as constipation with chronic use. During clinical trials with crofelemer, patients were excluded if they were actively using other antidiarrheal medications. Use caution and monitor GI symptoms during coadministration.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with cyclosporine. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and cyclosporine is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Danicopan: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with danicopan. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and danicopan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Daraxonrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with daraxonrasib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and daraxonrasib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with daridorexant. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and daridorexant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with darunavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with darunavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with darunavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of dasatinib and loperamide. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Desflurane: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP, like halogenated anesthetics, should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with loperamide.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) The risk of QT prolongation may be increased with coadministration of deutetrabenazine and loperamide. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with quinidine increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Both antidiarrheals and anticholinergics, such as dicyclomine, decrease GI motility. Use of these drugs together may produce additive effects on the GI track; thereby increasing the risk for toxic megacolon.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and loperamide is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Use donepezil with caution in combination with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Use donepezil with caution in combination with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of loperamide and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
droPERidol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of droperidol and loperamide if possible. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Droperidol is also associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Elacestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with elacestrant. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and elacestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with elagolix. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and elagolix is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with elagolix. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and elagolix is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and eliglustat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and eliglustat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with enasidenib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and enasidenib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and loperamide due to QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Encorafenib is associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold, while coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with loperamide due to the risk of QT prolongation. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Erdafitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with erdafitinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
eriBULin: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and loperamide must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and erythromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and escitalopram may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with etravirine. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and etravirine is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering fingolimod concomitantly with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of flecainide and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with flibanserin. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and flibanserin is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of loperamide and fluconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and fluoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of loperamide and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of fluvoxamine and loperamide. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest. Cases of QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) The plasma concentration of loperamide, a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, may be altered when administered concurrently with fosamprenavir, a potent inhibitor and inducer of CYP3A4 and inducer of P-gp. If these drugs are used together, monitor for both decreased loperamide efficacy and loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest).
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as loperamide. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with fostamatinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Use loperamide and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemfibrozil: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with gemfibrozil. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2C8 inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 2.2-fold.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Gemifloxacin should be used cautiously with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and loperamide together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with loperamide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with glecaprevir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and glecaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with pibrentasvir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and pibrentasvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving loperamide. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Use granisetron with caution in combination with loperamide due to the risk of QT prolongation. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP, like halogenated anesthetics, should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with loperamide.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and haloperidol may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving loperamide. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and ibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Ibutilide: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP, like ibutilide, should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with loperamide.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with idelalisib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Iloperidone: (Major) Loperamide should be avoided in combination with iloperidone. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, since iloperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. If these drugs are used together, monitor for cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, cardiac arrest) and other loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects.
Imlunestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with loperamide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with isavuconazonium. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and isavuconazonium is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Isoflurane: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP, like halogenated anesthetics, should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with loperamide.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with istradefylline. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of loperamide and itraconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with itraconazole increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with loperamide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of loperamide and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and lapatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and lapatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with lasmiditan. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ledipasvir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and ledipasvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with lenacapavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with loperamide due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving loperamide. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Levacetylleucine: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with levacetylleucine. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of loperamide and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Lithium: (Moderate) Loperamide should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with lithium. Lithium has been associated with QT prolongation and high doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Coadministration may further increase the risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor ECG if lofexidine is coadministered with loperamide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of TdP. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with lomitapide. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with lonafarnib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with loperamide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ritonavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with ritonavir increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as loperamide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and loperamide may increase loperamide exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for increased loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest) and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate, mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and mefloquine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and mefloquine is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and methadone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midostaurin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and loperamide may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, and cardiac arrest.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and mirtazapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with mitapivat. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with nefazodone. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with nelfinavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Neratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with neratinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and neratinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Nilotinib: (Major) Loperamide should be avoided in combination with nilotinib. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Nilotinib also prolongs the QT interval and the manufacturer advises against use with other drugs that prolong the QT interval. If concurrent administration is unavoidable, the manufacturer of nilotinib recommends interruption of nilotinib treatment. If nilotinib must be continued, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ritonavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with ritonavir increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and fluoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with loperamide. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, and cardiac arrest.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and osimertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor electrolytes and ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of loperamide with oxaliplatin is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal TdP have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking loperamide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate, pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Paliperidone: (Major) Loperamide should be avoided in combination with paliperidone. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; TdP and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer of paliperidone, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to cause QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of loperamide and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of loperamide and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin should be avoided in combination with loperamide. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation; high doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Coadministration may further increase the risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Because high doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest, coadministration is contraindicated.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with pirtobrutinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and pirtobrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking loperamide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of loperamide and posaconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Pramlintide: (Major) Pramlintide slows gastric emptying and the rate of nutrient delivery to the small intestine. Medications with the potential to slow GI motility such as loperamide, should be used with caution, if at all, with pramlintide until more data are available from the manufacturer. Monitor blood glucose.
Pretomanid: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-related adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities, if coadministration with primaquine is necessary. Concomitant use of primaquine and loperamide may increase loperamide exposure and increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate, primaquine is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of loperamide and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and propafenone is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with quinidine increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and quinine is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and ranolazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and ranolazine is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with relacorilant. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. At high doses, loperamide has also been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. At high doses, loperamide has also been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with remibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Use risperidone and loperamide together with caution due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ritonavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with ritonavir increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Rolapitant: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with rolapitant. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and rolapitant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Saquinavir: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and saquinavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Sarecycline: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with sarecycline. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and sarecycline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary, and monitor for other loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and selpercatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and sertraline may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Sevoflurane: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP, like halogenated anesthetics, should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with loperamide.
Siponimod: (Moderate) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving loperamide due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, and cardiac arrest.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with velpatasvir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with velpatasvir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with voxilaprevir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and voxilaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Loperamide should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with solifenacin. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. TdP has been reported with post-marketing use, although causality was not determined. This should be taken into consideration when prescribing solifenacin to patients taking other drugs that are associated with QT prolongation.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and sorafenib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with sotorasib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and sotorasib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with sparsentan. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with stiripentol. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and stiripentol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if sunitinib is administered with loperamide. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Consider ECG and electrolyte monitoring periodically during treatment if tacrolimus is administered with loperamide. Tacrolimus may prolong the QT interval and cause torsade de pointes (TdP). At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Due to increased risk of QT interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), use caution if telavancin is administered with loperamide. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with temsirolimus. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Tepotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with tepotinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Tetrabenazine also has been associated with an increase in QT interval. The manufacturer of tetrabenazine recommends avoiding concurrent use of tetrabenazine with other drugs known to prolong the QTc interval.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of loperamide and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of tipranavir (in the FDA approved dosage regimen) with loperamide results in decreased loperamide concentrations (30% reduction in AUC) and decreased tipranavir Cmin (26% reduction). The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, and no recommendations for dosage adjustments are available.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Loperamide should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with tolterodine. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. High doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Coadministration may further increase the risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of loperamide with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. At high doses, loperamide has also been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with verapamil. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and verapamil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of loperamide and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving loperamide. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration increased loperamide overall exposure by 1.73-fold.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with tucatinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with loperamide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. At high doses, loperamide has also been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and vemurafenib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Venetoclax: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with venetoclax. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and venetoclax is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and venlafaxine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and loperamide increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with verapamil. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and verapamil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Vimseltinib: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with vimseltinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and vimseltinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and voclosporin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of loperamide and voriconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Loperamide should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with vorinostat. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and high doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Coadministration may further increase the risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with zonisamide. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and zonisamide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of the loperamide; simethicone. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs of loperamide or simethicone for more information about each specific agent.
 
No adverse reactions have been reported or are expected with conventional dosage forms of simethicone. The drug is not absorbed systemically.
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Loperamide; simethicone is generally well tolerated. Adverse reactions related to the loperamide component are usually self-limiting. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish between possible adverse effects of the drug and the problems associated with the diarrheal syndrome. Adverse reactions reported in >= 1% of patients include epigastric or abdominal pain/cramping, xerostomia, flatulence, nausea, and vomiting. Constipation was reported in 2.6—5.3% of patients. Dyspepsia were reported with post-marketing use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    dizziness, drowsiness, headache
    General Information
    Loperamide; simethicone is generally well tolerated. Adverse reactions related to the loperamide component are usually self-limiting. Drowsiness, dizziness (1.4%), and headache (>= 1%) have been reported with loperamide use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    ileus, toxic megacolon
    General Information
    Paralytic ileus has been reported rarely with the loperamide component of loperamide; simethicone. Most incidents of ileus have occurred in cases of overdose, acute dysentery, or in children under the age of 2 years. Isolated reports of toxic megacolon in AIDS patients with infectious colitis (both viral and bacterial) have been reported with loperamide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ileus
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      toxic megacolon
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bullous rash, erythema multiforme, pruritus, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria
    General Information
    Rare allergic events, including anaphylactoid reactions, anaphylactic shock, bullous rash eruption including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported with the loperamide component of loperamide; simethicone. In most cases the patients were on other medications that may have contributed or caused the allergic events. Angioedema, rash (unspecified), pruritus, and urticaria were reported during post-marketing experience of loperamide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    urinary retention
    General Information
    Urinary retention was reported with post-marketing use of the loperamide component of loperamide; simethicone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of the loperamide; simethicone. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs of loperamide or simethicone for more information about each specific agent. 
 
Loperamide and simethicone are used together to treat acute diarrhea accompanied by bloating, cramps, and pressure. Loperamide treats diarrhea by slowing intestinal motility, inhibiting fluid and electrolyte secretion and/or increasing water absorption. Simethicone reduces gas symptoms by dispersing and preventing the formation of mucus-surrounded gas pockets in the GI tract. Simethicone works by decreasing the surface tension of gas bubbles in the GI tract thereby allowing the foamy gas bubbles to coalesce into one large pocket of gas which is easily eliminated. Tolerance to the antidiarrheal effect of loperamide has not been observed, and it does not appear to produce physical dependence. However, intentional misuse or abuse of high loperamide doses has been observed in patients attempting to self-treat opioid withdrawal or achieve an euphoric feeling. These intentional overdoses, along with elevated loperamide concentrations resulting from drug interactions, have been associated with at least 48 cases of loperamide-induced cardiac events. Of these 48 cases, 31 required hospitalization and 10 resulted in death. Due to the severity of these adverse events, the FDA issued a Drug Safety Communication in June 2016 to alert health care providers of the potential for serious cardiac events following use of high loperamide doses. Also, fluid and electrolyte depletion often occur in patients who experience diarrhea. The use of loperamide; simethicone does not preclude the need for appropriate fluid and electrolyte therapy. Imodium Advanced was approved in 1997; later renamed Imodium Multi-Symptom Relief. Generic products were first approved in October 2002.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Loperamide and simethicone are used in combination used to treat acute diarrhea accompanied with gas and bloating.
 
Loperamide: acts by slowing intestinal motility and by affecting water and electrolyte movement through the bowel. Loperamide has a direct action by binding to the opiate receptor on the circular and longitudinal muscles of the intestinal wall. This action inhibits the release of acetylcholine and prostaglandins thereby reducing peristalsis and increasing intestinal transit time. By increasing the transit time of the intestinal contents, loperamide reduces fecal volume, increases the bulk density and the viscosity of the feces, and decreases the loss of electrolytes and fluids from the body. It also increases the tone of the anal sphincter, which reduces incontinence and urgency. Although loperamide is chemically related to opioids, it does not exhibit analgesic or opiate-like effects, even at high doses. Tolerance to antidiarrheal effects has not been observed, and it does not appear to produce physical dependence.
Simethicone: an antiflatulent that has been shown in vitro to disperse and prevent the formation of mucus-surrounded gas pockets in the GI tract. Changing the surface tension of the gas bubble prevents these pockets. The gas bubbles coalesce and are more quickly eliminated by flatus, belching, or absorption into the bloodstream. These actions in vivo have not been clearly established. Additionally, simethicone exhibits in vitro activity against Helicobacter pylori.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Loperamide: Following oral administration, loperamide is rapidly absorbed from the GI tract. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 2.5 hours after administration of oral solution and within 5 hours after administration of the capsule. Because of extensive first-pass metabolism, loperamide has a low systemic oral bioavailability of 0.3%. Onset of antidiarrheal action usually occurs within 0.5—1 hour.
Simethicone: Physiologically inert and not expected to enter systemic circulation.
  Text
  Loperamide; simethicone is administered orally.
 
Loperamide: Loperamide is 97% plasma protein-bound with limited CNS penetration expected. It undergoes hepatic metabolism via cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, mainly CYP2C8 and CYP3A4. CYP2B6 and CYP2D6 appear to play a minor role in loperamide N-demethylation. When administered at the manufacturer recommended dose, the half-life is approximately 10.8 hours (range 9.1—14.4 hours) and the duration of action is up to 24 hours. However, when doses of 16 mg or higher are administered, the half-life has been found to be long as 41 hours. Approximately 30% of a dose is eliminated via the feces as unchanged drug, with less than 2% excreted in the urine.
Simethicone: Physiologically inert and not expected to enter systemic circulation; it is excreted unchanged in the feces.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Caplets:
Instruct patient to drink plenty of clear fluids to prevent dehydration.
Instruct patient to swallow whole with water and to not chew caplet.
 
Chewable tablets:
Instruct patient to drink plenty of clear fluids to prevent dehydration.
Instruct patient tablets should be chewed well before swallowing and to not swallow whole. 
Administer with 4—8 ounces of water.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    8 mg/24 hours PO loperamide; 500 mg/24 hours PO simethicone.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    8 mg/24 hours PO loperamide; 500 mg/24 hours PO simethicone.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    8 mg/24 hours PO loperamide; 500 mg/24 hours PO simethicone.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: 8 mg/24 hours PO loperamide; 500 mg/24 hours PO simethicone.
9—11 years (60—95 pounds): 6 mg/24 hours PO loperamide; 375 mg/24 hours PO simethicone.
6—8 years (48—59 pounds): 4 mg/24 hours PO loperamide; 250 mg/24 hours PO simethicone.
< 6 years (<= 47 pounds): Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments are not available; use caution since the loperamide undergoes significant first-pass hepatic metabolism.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
