=== Xanomeline/Trospium (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5563)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Xanomeline; trospirum chloride is a combination of a muscarinic agonist (xanomeline) and a muscarinic antagonist (trospium).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 250 mg/day PO xanomeline and 60 mg/day PO trospium chloride.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome, gastroesophageal reflux, cystitis, dysuria, urinary retention, biliary obstruction, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypertensive crisis, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (svt), syncope, confusion, delirium, dizziness, drowsiness, hallucinations, dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, muscle cramps

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Xanomeline; trospium is contraindicated in people with urinary retention.

Brand Names
  - Cobenfy

Dosage Forms
  - COBENFY 100mg-20mg Capsule
  - COBENFY 125mg-30mg Capsule
  - COBENFY 28-Day Starter Pack
  - COBENFY 50mg-20mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        50 mg xanomeline; 20 mg trospium PO twice daily for at least 2 days, then 100 mg xanomeline; 20 mg trospium PO twice daily for at least 5 days, initially. May further increase the dose to 125 mg xanomeline; 30 mg trospium PO twice daily based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 125 mg xanomeline; 30 mg trospium twice daily.
        Heading
        Older Adults
        Dosage Description
        50 mg xanomeline; 20 mg trospium PO twice daily, initially. May increase the dose to 100 mg xanomeline; 20 mg trospium PO twice daily based on clinical response and tolerability; consider a slower titration. Max: 100 mg xanomeline; 20 mg trospium twice daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of schizophrenia

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bladder obstruction, neurogenic bladder, prostatic hypertrophy, urinary retention
    General Information
    Xanomeline; trospium is contraindicated in people with urinary retention. Older adults and people with clinically significant bladder obstruction or incomplete bladder emptying, such as people with benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH) or diabetic neurogenic bladder (diabetic cystopathy), may be at increased risk of urinary retention. Monitor xanomeline; trospium recipients for symptoms of urinary retention. Advise treated patients of this risk and the symptoms of urinary retention and to promptly report them. In treated patients with symptoms of urinary retention, consider reducing the dosage or discontinuing xanomeline; trospium, or referring patients for urologic evaluation as clinically indicated.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Xanomeline; trospium is contraindicated in people with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. Use of xanomeline; trospium is not recommended in patients with mild (Child-Pugh Class A) hepatic impairment. Patients with hepatic impairment have higher systemic exposures to xanomeline compared to normal subjects, which may result in an increased incidence of medication-related adverse reactions.
    Headline
    biliary tract disease
    General Information
    Xanomeline; trospium is not recommended for patients with active biliary tract disease such as symptomatic gallstones (cholelithiasis). Assess liver enzymes and bilirubin prior to initiating xanomeline; trospium and as clinically indicated during treatment. In clinical studies of xanomeline; trospium, transient increases in liver enzymes with rapid decline occurred, consistent with transient biliary obstruction due to biliary contraction and possible gallstone passage. The occurrence of symptoms such as dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, or upper abdominal pain should prompt an assessment for gallbladder disease, biliary disorders, or pancreatitis, as clinically indicated. Discontinue treatment in the presence of signs or symptoms of substantial liver injury or alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels more than 5 times the upper limit of normal or 5 times baseline values.
    Headline
    gastroparesis, GI obstruction, myasthenia gravis, ulcerative colitis
    General Information
    Xanomeline; trospium is contraindicated in patients with gastric retention (e.g., gastroparesis). Trospium, like other antimuscarinic agents, may decrease gastrointestinal motility. Xanomeline; trospium should be used with caution in patients with gastrointestinal (GI) obstructive disorders (GI obstruction) due to the risk of gastric retention. Xanomeline; trospium should also be used with caution in conditions such as ulcerative colitis, intestinal atony or ileus, and myasthenia gravis.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Xanomeline; trospium is not recommended in people with moderate or severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 60 mL/minute) or renal failure. Trospium is substantially excreted by the kidney. Systemic exposure of trospium chloride is higher in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment and anticholinergic adverse reactions are expected to be greater in these patients.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Patients should be advised to avoid driving or operating machinery or completing activities requiring coordination and concentration until they know how xanomeline; trospium will affect them. Trospium is associated with anticholinergic central nervous system (CNS) effects, including dizziness, confusion, hallucinations, and somnolence. Monitor patients for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects, particularly after initiating treatment with xanomeline; trospium or with dose increases. If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects, consider a dose reduction or discontinuation of the medication.
    Headline
    closed-angle glaucoma
    General Information
    Xanomeline; trospium is contraindicated in untreated narrow-angle glaucoma (closed-angle glaucoma). Pupillary dilation may occur due to the anticholinergic effects of xanomeline; trospium. This may trigger an acute angle closure attack in patients with anatomically narrow angles. In patients known to have anatomically narrow angles, xanomeline; trospium should only be used if the potential benefits outweigh the risks and with careful monitoring.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Due to the increased risk of urinary retention in geriatric patients, including older adult males with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), a slower titration and lower maximum dosage of xanomeline; trospium is recommended in geriatric adults. Controlled clinical studies of xanomeline; trospium did not include adults over 65 years of age to determine whether they respond differently than younger adults. According to the Beers Criteria, antimuscarinics with strong anticholinergic properties, such as trospium, are considered potentially inappropriate in older adults with dementia/cognitive impairment (adverse CNS effects) or delirium/high risk of delirium (new-onset or worsening delirium). Trospium exhibits anticholinergic activity that may be additive to other anticholinergic medications, particularly in the geriatric adult.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available data on xanomeline; trospium use in pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. There are risks to the pregnant patient associated with untreated schizophrenia, including increased risk of relapse, hospitalization, and suicide. Schizophrenia is associated with adverse perinatal outcomes, including preterm birth. It is not known if this is a direct result of the illness or other comorbid factors. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of xanomeline alone or in combination with trospium chloride during the period of organogenesis or during pregnancy and lactation caused maternal toxicities of adverse clinical signs, decreased body weight, weight gain and food consumption, and/or maternal death. At maternally toxic doses, embryofetal and developmental toxicities include decreased fetal and neonatal weight, stillborn pups, and/or neonatal deaths. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant individuals exposed to psychiatric medications, including xanomeline; trospium, during pregnancy. Health care providers are encouraged to advise patients to register by calling 1-866-961-2388 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/atypicalantipsychotic/.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of xanomeline or trospium in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Xanomeline and trospium are present in animal milk. When a drug is present in animal milk, it is likely that the drug will also be present in human milk. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for xanomeline; trospium and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from xanomeline; trospium or from the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available data on xanomeline; trospium use in pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. There are risks to the pregnant patient associated with untreated schizophrenia, including increased risk of relapse, hospitalization, and suicide. Schizophrenia is associated with adverse perinatal outcomes, including preterm birth. It is not known if this is a direct result of the illness or other comorbid factors. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of xanomeline alone or in combination with trospium chloride during the period of organogenesis or during pregnancy and lactation caused maternal toxicities of adverse clinical signs, decreased body weight, weight gain and food consumption, and/or maternal death. At maternally toxic doses, embryofetal and developmental toxicities include decreased fetal and neonatal weight, stillborn pups, and/or neonatal deaths. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant individuals exposed to psychiatric medications, including xanomeline; trospium, during pregnancy. Health care providers are encouraged to advise patients to register by calling 1-866-961-2388 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/atypicalantipsychotic/.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of xanomeline or trospium in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Xanomeline and trospium are present in animal milk. When a drug is present in animal milk, it is likely that the drug will also be present in human milk. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for xanomeline; trospium and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from xanomeline; trospium or from the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
AbobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. If xanomeline is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with xanomeline may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with xanomeline may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of xanomeline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); xanomeline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If xanomeline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. If xanomeline is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If xanomeline is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Acetylcholine Chloride: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Adefovir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of adefovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase adefovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of xanomeline and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of xanomeline. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. If xanomeline is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If xanomeline is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Alosetron: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and trospium, an antimuscarinic which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid antimuscarinics in patients taking alosetron.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and xanomeline due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with xanomeline, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and amantadine is necessary.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of amiloride and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiloride and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of amiloride and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiloride and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when amoxapine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Anticholinergics: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of xanomeline. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus xanomeline may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium are used concomitantly with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with xanomeline may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of xanomeline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); xanomeline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. If xanomeline is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If xanomeline is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Atropine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If xanomeline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Botulinum Toxins: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and xanomeline can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when xanomeline is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping xanomeline, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If xanomeline is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and xanomeline is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when buprenorphine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as trospium. The concomitant use of buprenorphine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and xanomeline can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when xanomeline is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping xanomeline, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If xanomeline is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and xanomeline is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when buprenorphine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as trospium. The concomitant use of buprenorphine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Depending on the specific agent, additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and bupropion are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with bupropion is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Depending on the specific agent, additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and bupropion are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with bupropion is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with xanomeline may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of xanomeline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); xanomeline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with xanomeline may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of xanomeline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); xanomeline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when butorphanol is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as trospium. The concomitant use of butorphanol and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Caffeine: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms and counteract the effectiveness of drugs used to treat overactive bladder, like trospium, to some degree. Patients with overactive bladder may wish to limit their intake of caffeine including caffeine from drugs, dietary supplements (i.e., guarana), beverages (i.e., teas, coffee, colas), or foods (i.e., chocolate).
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely during coadministration of xanomeline; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may increase carbamazepine concentrations. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of xanomeline, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Dry mouth and drowsiness may occur in patients receiving cetirizine/levocetirizine; caution may be necessary during concomitant use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with the antimuscarinics.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dry mouth and drowsiness may occur in patients receiving cetirizine/levocetirizine; caution may be necessary during concomitant use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with the antimuscarinics.
Cevimeline: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with xanomeline may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of xanomeline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); xanomeline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If xanomeline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Cholinergic agonists: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of cimetidine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cimetidine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and xanomeline; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program. (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as trospium, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium are used concomitantly with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including clozapine. (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with xanomeline and monitor for adverse reactions. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A; xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cocaine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and cocaine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with xanomeline may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of xanomeline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); xanomeline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with xanomeline may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of xanomeline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); xanomeline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with xanomeline may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of xanomeline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); xanomeline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with xanomeline may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of xanomeline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); xanomeline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with xanomeline may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of xanomeline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); xanomeline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with xanomeline may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of xanomeline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If xanomeline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine( norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); xanomeline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and xanomeline due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Cyclobenzaprine possesses antimuscarinic properties, which can cause dry mouth, urinary difficulties and slowing of gastrointestinal motility. If used with other drugs with antimuscarinic properties, anticholinergic side effects can be additive.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dacomitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dacomitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
DaxibotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dexlansoprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Depending on the specific agent, additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and bupropion are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with bupropion is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of quinidine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase quinidine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with quinidine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and quinidine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium are used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects like disopyramide. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of dofetilide and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dofetilide and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Donepezil: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic coadministration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of memantine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase memantine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic coadministration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with xanomeline may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of xanomeline with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of xanomeline with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with an anticholinergic drug like trospium is necessary. Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with anticholinergics may result in additive drowsiness, hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with xanomeline. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of xanomeline. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of xanomeline; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with xanomeline may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with xanomeline may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of eliglustat and xanomeline is not recommended in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with xanomeline may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with xanomeline may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with xanomeline may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with xanomeline due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Entecavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of entecavir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase entecavir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Erythromycin: (Minor) The antimuscarinics can antagonize the stimulatory effects of erythromycin on the GI tract when erythromycin is used therapeutically for improving GI motility.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol and alcohol-containing products while taking trospium. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression. Alcohol should not be consumed within 2 hours of trospium extended-release capsules.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and xanomeline should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. If xanomeline is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If xanomeline is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or xanomeline; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors, including xanomeline, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fluoxetine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Food: (Moderate) Trospium is minimally absorbed after oral administration (< 10%). Administration with food (a high fat meal) significantly reduces absorption. Patients should be advised to take trospium at least 1 hour before meals on an empty stomach.
Galantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and xanomeline as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-gp and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Glycopyrronium: (Moderate) Although glycopyrronium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after topical application, there is the potential for glycopyrronium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with trospium. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of glycopyrronium with other anticholinergic medications.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If xanomeline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If xanomeline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If xanomeline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
IncobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Antimuscarinic drugs including trospium can raise intragastric pH. This effect may decrease the oral bioavailability of itraconazole. Trospium should be used cautiously in patients receiving itraconazole.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with xanomeline may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of xanomeline with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; xanomeline may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with xanomeline as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Dry mouth and drowsiness may occur in patients receiving cetirizine/levocetirizine; caution may be necessary during concomitant use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with the antimuscarinics.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and xanomeline; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing xanomeline. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Antipsychotic agents may disrupt core temperature regulation; therefore, caution is recommended during concurrent use of lurasidone and medications with anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Concurrent use of lurasidone and medications with anticholinergic activity may contribute to heat-related disorders. Monitor patients for heat intolerance, decreased sweating, or increased body temperature if lurasidone is used with antimuscarinics.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of xanomeline and mavorixafor is necessary. If needed, reduce the mavorixafor dosage by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both medications. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and P-gp inhibitor.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Memantine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of memantine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase memantine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. If xanomeline is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with xanomeline can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. If xanomeline is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with xanomeline can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and xanomeline. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of midodrine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase midodrine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Mirabegron should be administered with caution in patients taking antimuscarinic medications for the treatment of overactive bladder, such as oxybutynin, because of the risk of urinary retention. Monitor for symptoms of urinary difficulties or urinary retention. Patients may note constipation or dry mouth with use of these drugs together.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when nalbuphine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as trospium. The concomitant use of nalbuphine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with xanomeline. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and xanomeline. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A and xanomeline is a dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with xanomeline due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and olanzapine are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and olanzapine are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fluoxetine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium and olanzapine are used concomitantly. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
OnabotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like trospium are used concomitantly with other commonly used drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including orphenadrine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. If xanomeline is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If xanomeline is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Pantoprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with paroxetine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and paroxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and xanomeline due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit P-gp.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when pentazocine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as trospium. The concomitant use of pentazocine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat. (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Oligohidrosis and hyperthermia have been reported in post-marketing experience with topiramate. Use caution when topiramate is prescribed with agents known to predispose patients to similar heat-related disorders such as trospium.
Pilocarpine: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and xanomeline. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate, and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of trospium if concomitant use of metformin is necessary. Concomitant use of metformin 500 mg twice daily reduced the overall exposure of trospium by approximately 29%, while the steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without trospium.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in posaconazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase posaconazole exposure. Posaconazole is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pralidoxime: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of xanomeline with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 1.8-fold.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and xanomeline due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of procainamide and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase procainamide and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with xanomeline; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and xanomeline with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) When coadministering quetiapine and trospium, monitor for additive anticholinergic effects such as constipation, blurred vision, urinary retention, xerostomia, and tachycardia. Constipation is a commonly reported adverse effect of quetiapine and anticholinergic agents such as trospium. Constipation may lead to ileus. Intestinal obstruction has been reported with quetiapine, including fatal cases in patients who were receiving multiple concomitant medications that decrease intestinal motility. Anticholinergic effects observed during therapeutic use of quetiapine are thought to be associated with norquetiapine, an active metabolite of quetiapine which has demonstrated a moderate to strong in vitro binding affinity for several muscarinic receptor subtypes.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of quinidine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase quinidine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with quinidine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and quinidine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of quinine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase quinine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) The American College of Gastroenterology states that the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may be theoretically decreased if given with other antisecretory agents (e.g., anticholinergics). Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) inhibit only actively secreting H+-pumps.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) MAOIs exhibit secondary anticholinergic actions. Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when MAOIs are used concomitantly with antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive CNS effects are also possible when many of these drugs are combined with MAOIs.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral xanomeline. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer xanomeline at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of xanomeline is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral xanomeline. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer xanomeline at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of xanomeline is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with xanomeline due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
RimabotulinumtoxinB: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with xanomeline; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in saquinavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase saquinavir exposure. Saquinavir is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Secretin: (Major) Discontinue anticholinergic medications at least 5 half-lives before performing a secretin stimulation test. Anticholinergics may cause a hyporesponse to secretin stimulation testing and interfere with the test's diagnostic accuracy.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and xanomeline due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of xanomeline. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Solifenacin: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when solifenacin is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the interacting agent.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if xanomeline must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. If xanomeline is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like xanomeline can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If xanomeline is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of trimethoprim and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase trimethoprim and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Tegaserod: (Major) Trospium is an antagonist at muscarinic cholinergic receptors and decreases gastrointestinal motility. Trospium, therefore, may potentially antagonize the actions of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, like tegaserod.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with xanomeline may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Terbinafine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in xanomeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use with terbinafine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase xanomeline exposure. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and terbinafine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when thiothixene is used concomitantly with other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as trospium. Monitor for anticholinergic-related adverse effects such as constipation, blurred vision, and urinary retention during concurrent use.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of xanomeline and tipranavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both medications. Xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and P-gp inhibitor and tipranavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Oligohidrosis and hyperthermia have been reported in post-marketing experience with topiramate. Use caution when topiramate is prescribed with agents known to predispose patients to similar heat-related disorders such as trospium.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of xanomeline with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; xanomeline may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of xanomeline, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of xanomeline, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Triamterene: (Minor) In theory, coadministration of trospium with drugs which are eliminated by renal cationic secretion, such as triamterene, may increase the serum concentrations of trospium or triamterene due to competition for the drug elimination pathway.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) In theory, coadministration of trospium with drugs which are eliminated by renal cationic secretion, such as triamterene, may increase the serum concentrations of trospium or triamterene due to competition for the drug elimination pathway.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with xanomeline. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and phenothiazines is necessary.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Trimethoprim: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of trimethoprim and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase trimethoprim and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as trospium. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients. Monitor for anticholinergic effects such as such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, urinary retention, dry mouth and eyes, blurred vision, or rarely, fast, irregular heartbeat.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Vancomycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of vancomycin and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase vancomycin and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with xanomeline due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of xanomeline. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Vibegron: (Moderate) Vibegron should be administered with caution in patients taking antimuscarinic medications for the treatment of overactive bladder, such as trospium, because of the risk of urinary retention. Monitor for symptoms of urinary difficulties or urinary retention. Patients may note constipation or dry mouth with use of these drugs together.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of xanomeline is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of xanomeline is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with xanomeline is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of zonisamide and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome
    General Information
    Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue, and/or larynx has been reported with xanomeline; trospium and with trospium chloride when used as monotherapy. In one case, angioedema occurred after the first dose of trospium chloride. In postmarketing experience with trospium chloride, anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions, rash, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have also been reported. If involvement of the tongue, hypopharynx, or larynx occurs, xanomeline; trospium should be discontinued and initiate appropriate therapy and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Trospium chloride, like other antimuscarinic agents, may decrease gastrointestinal motility. In 5-week, placebo-controlled clinical studies, gastrointestinal adverse effects reported included, including nausea (19%), dyspepsia (includes dyspepsia and esophageal discomfort; 18%), constipation (17%), vomiting (15%), abdominal pain (8%), diarrhea (6%), and gastroesophageal reflux disease (5%). The most common adverse reactions leading to study discontinuation were nausea (2%) and vomiting (1%). In postmarketing experience with trospium, gastritis was also reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cystitis, dysuria, urinary retention
    General Information
    Xanomeline; trospium can cause urinary retention. In the 5-week, placebo-controlled studies, urinary retention (which included urinary hesitation, dysuria, and urinary retention) was reported in 0.8% of xanomeline; trospium-treated patients and 0.4% with placebo. In long-term, open-label studies, urinary retention was reported in 3.5% of xanomeline; trospium-treated patients. Urinary retention was more common in male patients, geriatric patients, and those with certain risk factors that may cause clinically significant bladder outlet obstruction and incomplete bladder emptying (such as benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) or diabetic cytopathy). Urinary retention was reported at all doses but was most often observed at the maximum dose. In the long-term, open-label studies, urinary tract infections (cystitis) were reported in 2.3% of xanomeline; trospium-treated patients and were more frequently reported in females than males. Of the 1,594 subjects exposed during clinical trials, 4 subjects required a Foley catheter, including one with elevated serum creatinine and one with urinary tract infections (cystitis). Four subjects with urinary retention required a reduction in medication dose, 4 subjects received medication for the treatment of BPH, and 4 subjects discontinued treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    biliary obstruction, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    In clinical studies with xanomeline; trospium, transient elevated hepatic enzymes with rapid decline occurred, consistent with transient biliary obstruction due to biliary contraction and possible gallstone passage. In the 5-week, placebo-controlled studies, proportions of patients with ALT or AST elevations of 3 times the upper limit of normal or higher were 2.8% (6/214) for xanomeline; trospium-treated patients compared to 0.4% (1/224) of placebo-treated patients. Of the 1,594 patients exposed to xanomeline; trospium, 25 (1.6%) had elevated hepatic enzymes. The majority of elevated hepatic enzymes occurred within the first month of treatment and resolved with continued xanomeline; trospium use, suggestive of liver adaptation. Some cases required treatment interruption, and one case was associated with an increase in bilirubin (hyperbilirubinemia).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      biliary obstruction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    blurred vision, visual impairment
    General Information
    In the 5-week, placebo-controlled studies, blurred vision was reported in 3% of patients receiving xanomeline; trospium. There were no reports of blurred vision in the placebo group. There have also been reports of abnormal vision (visual impairment) during postmarketing use of trospium chloride.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypertensive crisis, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), syncope
    General Information
    In the 5-week, placebo-controlled studies of xanomeline; trospium, cardiovascular adverse effects included hypertension (including reports of increased blood pressure, labile hypertension, and orthostatic hypertension; 11%), tachycardia (including reports of increased heart rate and sinus tachycardia; 5%), and orthostatic hypotension (2%). In these studies, xanomeline; trospium was associated with increases in heart rate compared to placebo, with peak elevation occurring on day 8 of study treatment (13.5 beats per minute (bpm) with xanomeline; trospium and 4 bpm in the placebo group) and partially attenuating with continued dosing (11.4 bpm with xanomeline; trospium and 5.5 bpm in the placebo group at week 5). In a dedicated 8-week clinical study, 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) was conducted in 133 patients with schizophrenia. A total of 95 patients had acceptable ABPM recordings at baseline and week 8. Of those, there was a mean change in 24-hour heart rate of 9.8 bpm (95% CI 7.5, 12.2) from baseline to week 8. Patients receiving xanomeline; trospium should be monitored at baseline and as clinically indicated for increases in heart rate. Other cardiac adverse effects that have been reported during postmarketing experience with trospium chloride have included chest pain (unspecified), hypertensive crisis, palpitations, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), and syncope.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertensive crisis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    confusion, delirium, dizziness, drowsiness, hallucinations
    General Information
    The use of trospium chloride has been associated with several anticholinergic central nervous system (CNS) effects. In the 5-week, placebo-controlled studies of xanomeline; trospium, the most common CNS effects reported included dizziness (5%) and somnolence (drowsiness, 3%). In postmarketing use of trospium chloride, confusion, delirium, dizziness, hallucinations, and somnolence have been reported. If patients experience anticholinergic CNS effects with xanomeline; trospium, a dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypersalivation, xerostomia
    General Information
    In the 5-week, placebo-controlled studies of xanomeline; trospium, xerostomia (dry mouth, 4%) and salivary hypersecretion (hypersalivation, 2%) were reported more often in patients receiving xanomeline; trospium than placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough
    General Information
    In the 5-week, placebo-controlled studies of xanomeline; trospium, cough (2%) was reported more often in patients receiving xanomeline; trospium than placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, muscle cramps
    General Information
    In the 5-week, placebo-controlled studies of xanomeline; trospium, non-akathisia extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) were reported in 2% of patients receiving xanomeline; trospium (compared to less than 1% of patients on placebo). These EPS included dyskinesia, drooling (sialorrhea), dystonic reaction, involuntary muscle contractions, and muscle cramps (muscle spasms).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dystonic reaction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    Rhabdomyolysis has been reported during postmarketing experience with trospium chloride. There were no reports of rhabdomyolysis during the 5-week, placebo-controlled clinical trials of xanomeline; trospium.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Xanomeline; trospirum chloride is a combination of a muscarinic agonist (xanomeline) and a muscarinic antagonist (trospium). It is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults. Approval for xanomeline; trospium was based on findings from the EMERGENT clinical trials. The EMERGENT-2 study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 5-week inpatient trial conducted in 252 adult patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia and recent (onset less than 2 months before screening) worsening psychosis that required hospital admission. Patients who received xanomeline; trospium during the study demonstrated significant reductions in their psychiatric symptoms, characterized by changes to the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total scores. Mean change in PANSS score from baseline to week 5 was significantly improved with xanomeline; trospium compared to placebo (-21.2 vs -11.6; least squares mean difference 9.6; 95% CI -13.9 to -5.2; p less than 0.0001). In the EMERGENT-3 study, a phase 3 multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 5-week trial, xanomeline; trospium showed similar efficacy in reducing symptoms of schizophrenia. At week 5, patients receiving the combination treatment had significantly reduced PANSS total score compared with placebo (-20.6 vs -12.2 for placebo; least squares mean difference -8.4; 95% CI -12.4 to -4.3, p less than 0.001). The most common adverse effects associated with xanomeline; trospium are related to the anticholinergic activity of trospium in the periphery and include nausea, dyspepsia, constipation, and vomiting. Use of xanomeline; trospium should be avoided in people with a history of moderate to severe hepatic impairment, biliary disease, urinary or gastric retention, or untreated narrow-angle glaucoma. The FDA approved xanomeline; trospium in September 2024.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Xanomeline; trospium is an oral medication containing 2 compounds with different mechanisms. The mechanism of action of xanomeline in the treatment of schizophrenia is unclear but is believed to be due to agonist activity at M1 and M4 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the central nervous system. These receptors are believed to be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia by treating underlying cholinergic dysfunction; in clinical studies, cholinergic dysfunction has been shown to contribute to dopaminergic or glutamatergic system dysfunction in the cortex, striatum, or hippocampus of the brain. Preclinical models also indicate that xanomeline selectively inhibits the firing of mesolimbic dopamine cells relative to dopamine cell bodies projecting to the striatum, which may translate to a faster onset of action than traditional antipsychotic medications and would not induce extrapyramidal side effects. Xanomeline has little to no affinity for receptors traditionally targeted in treatment of schizophrenia (including D2 and 5-HT3 receptors and serotonin or dopamine uptake sites). It has moderate affinity for H1 receptors and numerous 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 receptor subtypes. In contrast, trospium chloride is an oral muscarinic receptor antagonist that is unable to cross the blood-brain barrier and works by antagonizing muscarinic receptors primarily in peripheral tissues, which helps to reduce cholinergic adverse effects associated with xanomeline that may limit tolerability.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration, Tmax occurred in 2 hours for xanomeline and 1 hour for trospium. Steady-state after oral administration occurs in 3 to 5 days for both medications. The xanomeline exposure during a 12-hour dosing interval (AUC0-12) at steady-state and maximum concentration (Cmax) increased 50% when the xanomeline; trospium dosage increased from 100 mg/20 mg twice daily to 125 mg/30 mg twice daily, which was greater than a proportional increase. Trospium exposures increase dose-proportionally over the dosage range of 100 mg/20 mg twice daily to 125 mg/30 mg twice daily. In pharmacokinetic studies examining the effects of food, administration of xanomeline; trospium with a high fat meal (800 to 1,000 calories, 50% from fat) resulted in a 30% increase in xanomeline AUC. For trospium, a high-fat meal resulted in a reduction in both Cmax and AUC (70% to 75% reduction in Cmax, 85% to 90% reduction in AUC). Administration of a low-fat meal (400 to 500 calories, 25% from fat) also resulted in a reduction in both Cmax and AUC for trospium (70% to 75% reduction in Cmax, 85% to 90% reduction in AUC) but had no effect on xanomeline parameters.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In a clinical study comparing healthy subjects and those with hepatic impairment, plasma concentrations of xanomeline increased with increasing severity of hepatic dysfunction. In subjects with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A), steady-state Cmax and AUC of xanomeline was 2.8 and 2.6 times that of subjects with normal hepatic function. Mild and moderate hepatic impairment did not substantially affect trospium exposure, but was found to significantly impact xanomeline exposures. In subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B), the steady-state Cmax and AUC of xanomeline was at least 7 times that of subjects with normal hepatic function. The effect of severe hepatic impairment on xanomeline and trospium exposure was not evaluated.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In clinical studies assessing renal impairment, plasma concentrations of xanomeline and trospium increased with increasing severity of renal dysfunction. For xanomeline, steady-state Cmax and AUC were 2.1 and 1.9 times higher in subjects with mild renal impairment (eGFR: 60 to less than 90 mL/minute), 2.4 and 2.1 times higher in moderate renal impairment (eGFR: 30 to less than 60 mL/minute), and 2.6 and 2.4 times higher in severe renal impairment (eGFR: less than 30 mL/minute) when compared to patients with normal renal function (eGFR: 90 mL/minute or more). For trospium, steady-state Cmax and AUC were both 1.6 times higher in subjects with mild renal impairment, 2.7 and 2.2 times higher in moderate renal impairment, and 2.9 for both Cmax and AUC in severe renal impairment when compared to subjects with normal renal function.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates that the AUC and Cmax of trospium at steady state were 60% higher and 36% higher, respectively, in subjects 65 years and older compared to younger subjects. AUC and Cmax of xanomeline at steady state were not different between subjects 65 years and older and younger subjects.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Plasma concentrations of xanomeline and trospium were similar between female and male subjects in clinical studies.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Xanomeline and trospium exposure did not differ between Black and non-Black patients in clinical studies. These studies included too few patients of Asian descent to evaluate comparisons.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Compared to subjects weighing 70 kg, xanomeline exposures were 30% to 35% lower and trospium exposures were 20% to 35% lower in subjects weighing 120 kg. However, the lower exposures observed in subjects weighing 120 kg are not expected to be clinically meaningful.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers
CYP2D6 is a significant contributor to the metabolism of xanomeline. Since the gene encoding CYP2D6 has polymorphisms that may impact protein function, a population pharmacokinetic analysis examined the effects of CYP2D6 polymorphisms on xanomeline metabolism. In this study, the median Cmax and median AUC of xanomeline were estimated to increase by 28% and 15%, respectively, in CYP2D6 intermediate metabolizers (n = 84) and decrease by 43% in both parameters for ultrarapid metabolizers (n = 12). The pharmacokinetics of xanomeline have not been adequately studied in subjects who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.
  Text
  Xanomeline; trospium is administered orally.
Xanomeline: The central volume of distribution of xanomeline is 10,800 L. Approximately 95% of xanomeline is protein bound. Xanomeline is primarily metabolized in the liver by CYP2D6 (major), as well as 2B6, 1A2, 2C9, and 2C19. It is also metabolized via flavin monooxygenases (FM01 and FM03). The elimination half-life is 5 hours, with an apparent clearance of 1,950 L/hour. Xanomeline is predominantly excreted in the urine, with 78% excreted as metabolites. Approximately 12% is eliminated in the feces.
Trospium: The central volume of distribution of trospium is 531 L. Approximately 80% of trospium is protein bound. The metabolism of trospium is not fully characterized but is believed to be primarily metabolized via ester hydrolysis and glucuronic acid conjugation. The elimination half-life is 6 hours, with an apparent clearance of 796 L/hour. Trospium is predominately excreted in the urine, with 85% to 90% excreted unchanged in the urine. Active tubular secretion is a major elimination pathway for trospium.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
Xanomeline exposure may be increased by strong CYP2D6 inhibitors. In vitro data suggest that xanomeline does not inhibit P-glycoprotein (P-gp) or CYP3A4 systemically, but that it may transiently inhibit P-gp and/or CYP3A4 locally in the intestine after dosing, which may increase plasma concentrations of coadministered sensitive CYP3A4 or P-gp substrates. Active tubular secretion is a major elimination pathway for trospium, and trospium may compete with other substances excreted by active tubular secretion.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before a meal or at least 2 hours after a meal.
Do not open the capsules.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    250 mg/day PO xanomeline and 60 mg/day PO trospium chloride.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO xanomeline and 40 mg/day PO trospium chloride.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A): Use is not recommended due to higher xanomeline exposures compared to individuals with normal hepatic function.
Moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) or severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment: Use is contraindicated.
 
During treatment:
Discontinue xanomeline; trospium in the presence of signs or symptoms of substantial liver injury such as jaundice, pruritus, or alanine aminotransferase levels more than 5 times the upper limit of normal or 5 times baseline values.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 60 to 89 mL/minute (mild renal impairment): No dosage adjustment necessary.
eGFR less than 60 mL/minute (moderate to severe renal impairment): Use is not recommended.
