=== Avelumab — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 4930)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Avelumab is a human IgG1 lambda monoclonal antibody that binds to the programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) found on T-cells and blocks the interaction of PD-L1 with PD-1 and B7.1 receptors on the tumor cell.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 800 mg IV every 2 weeks.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cholangitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, colitis, gi obstruction, ileus, adrenocortical insufficiency, hypophysitis, hypopituitarism, diabetes mellitus, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperglycemia, asthenia, fatigue, malaise, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myelitis, heart failure, myocardial infarction, myocarditis, pericarditis, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Use avelumab with caution in patients with a history of autoimmune disease, including inflammatory bowel disease. Immune-mediated reactions, which may be severe or fatal, can occur in patients treated with drugs that bind to either the programmed death-receptor 1 (PD-1) or the PD-ligand 1 (PD-L1)... Emetic risk: Minimal Administer the diluted solution IV over 60 minutes. Use a sterile, non-pyrogenic, low-protein-binding 0.2-micron in-line filter.

AVELUMAB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

BAVENCIO

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma

Intravenous dosage
Adults


800 mg IV every 2 weeks until disease progression. Premedicate patients with an antihistamine and acetaminophen at 30 to 60 minutes prior to the first 4 avelumab infusions; premedication may be administered prior to subsequent doses based upon clinical judgment and presence/severity of prior infusion reactions. Therapy interruption or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop immune-related reactions. Permanently discontinue therapy for severe or life-threatening infusion-related reactions. In 88 patients (median age, 72.5 years) with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma who had received at least 1 prior line of systemic chemotherapy for metastatic disease, treatment with avelumab resulted in a confirmed overall response rate of 31.8% (complete response, 9%) in part A of a multinational, phase 2 (JAVELIN Merkel 200) trial. At a median follow-up time of 10.4 months, the median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) times were 2.7 months and 11.3 months, respectively. In 116 patients (median age, 74 years) with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma who had not previously received systemic chemotherapy for metastatic disease, treatment with avelumab resulted in an objective response rate lasting at least 6 months (primary endpoint) of 30.2% and a confirmed best overall response rate of 39.7% (complete response, 16.4%) in part B of the JAVELIN Merkel 200 trial. At a median follow-up time of 21.2 (range, 14.9 to 36.6) months, the median PFS and OS times were 4.1 months and 20.3 months, respectively.


Children and Adolescents 12 years and older


800 mg IV every 2 weeks until disease progression. Premedicate patients with an antihistamine and acetaminophen at 30 to 60 minutes prior to the first 4 avelumab infusions; premedication may be administered prior to subsequent doses based upon clinical judgment and presence/severity of prior infusion reactions. Therapy interruption or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop immune-related reactions. Permanently discontinue therapy for severe or life-threatening infusion-related reactions. Efficacy for pediatric patients has been extrapolated from results from clinical trials in adult patients and from pharmacokinetic data suggesting that drug exposure is comparable between adults and pediatric patients aged 12 years and older.


For the treatment of urothelial carcinoma

For the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma, in patients with disease progression on or following platinum-containing chemotherapy, or within 12 months of neoadjuvant or adjuvant platinum-containing chemotherapy
Intravenous dosage
Adults


800 mg IV over 60 minutes every 2 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. All patients should receive premedication with an antihistamine and acetaminophen 30 to 60 minutes prior to the first 4 avelumab infusions; premedication may be administered prior to subsequent doses based upon clinical judgment and presence/severity of prior infusion reactions. Therapy may need to be temporarily withheld or permanently discontinued in patients who develop immune-related reactions. Permanently discontinue therapy for severe or life-threatening infusion-related reactions. In a multicenter, open-label, single arm clinical trial, a cohort of patients from the Javelin Solid Tumor trial who had platinum-resistant, locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer were treated with avelumab. In this cohort, the objective response rate was 13.3% (complete response (CR), 4%; partial response (PR), 9.3%) after at least 13 weeks of follow-up (n = 226), and 16.1% (CR, 5.6%; PR, 10.6%) after at least 6 months of follow-up (n = 161). The median duration of response was not estimable but ranged from 1.4 to 17.4+ months.


For maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma that has not progressed with first-line platinum-containing chemotherapy
Intravenous dosage
Adults


800 mg IV over 60 minutes every 2 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. All patients should receive premedication with an antihistamine and acetaminophen 30 to 60 minutes prior to the first 4 avelumab infusions; premedication may be administered prior to subsequent doses based upon clinical judgment and presence/severity of prior infusion reactions. Therapy may need to be temporarily withheld or permanently discontinued in patients who develop immune-related reactions. Permanently discontinue therapy for severe or life-threatening infusion-related reactions. Maintenance therapy with avelumab significantly improved the median overall survival (OS) compared with best supportive care in patients with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer that did not progress with first-line platinum-based chemotherapy in a multicenter, open-label clinical trial (23.8 months vs. 15 months). In a prespecified endpoint of OS based on PD-L1 status, the effect of avelumab maintenance therapy remained statistically significant for patients with PD-L1 positive tumors. The effect was not significant in patients with PD-L1 negative tumors in an exploratory analysis.


For the treatment of renal cell cancer

For the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell cancer, in combination with axitinib
Intravenous dosage
Adults


800 mg IV every 2 weeks, in combination with axitinib (initial dose, 5 mg PO twice daily) until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The axitinib dosage may be increased to 7 mg twice daily and then to 10 mg twice daily in normotensive patients (not receiving antihypertensive medications) who tolerate the lower dosage for at least 2 consecutive weeks with no greater than grade 2 adverse reactions. All patients should receive premedication with an antihistamine and acetaminophen 30 to 60 minutes prior to the first 4 avelumab infusions; premedication may be administered prior to subsequent doses based upon clinical judgment and presence/severity of prior infusion reactions. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. First-line treatment with avelumab in combination with axitinib significantly improved progression-free survival compared with sunitinib in patients with PD-L1 positive tumors (13.8 months vs. 7.2 months) as well as in the intent-to-treat (ITT) population (13.8 months vs. 8.4 months) in an open-label phase 3 clinical trial (JAVELIN Renal 101). In the final analysis, overall survival was not statistically significant for either the PD-L1 positive or ITT population.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

autoimmune disease, inflammatory bowel disease


Use avelumab with caution in patients with a history of autoimmune disease, including inflammatory bowel disease. Immune-mediated reactions, which may be severe or fatal, can occur in patients treated with drugs that bind to either the programmed death-receptor 1 (PD-1) or the PD-ligand 1 (PD-L1), thus removing inhibition of the immune response, such as avelumab. These immune-mediated reactions can occur in any organ system or tissue and can also affect more than one body system simultaneously. Although usually occurring during treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors, immune-mediated reactions can occur at any time after starting therapy including after discontinuation of therapy. Because early identification and management is critical to safe usage of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors, closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms that may be clinical manifestations of underlying immune-mediated reactions. Initiate an appropriate workup to exclude alternative etiologies including infection in cases of suspected immune-mediated reaction. Begin medical management promptly, including specialty consultation as appropriate. An interruption or discontinuation of avelumab therapy may be necessary, depending on the severity of the reaction. In general, if an interruption or discontinuation of therapy is necessary, administer systemic corticosteroids (1 to 2 mg/kg per day of prednisone or equivalent); upon improvement to grade 1 or less, begin a steroid taper over at least 1 month. Consider additional systemic immunosuppression in patients whose symptoms are not controlled with corticosteroid therapy.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pulmonary disease, thoracic radiation therapy


Use avelumab with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; immune-mediated pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with avelumab. The incidence is higher in patients who have received prior thoracic radiation therapy, except in patients with classical Hodgkin lymphoma, where pneumonitis rates were similar regardless of prior thoracic radiation. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonitis (e.g., new or worsening cough, chest pain, shortness of breath). If confirmed, avelumab therapy may need to be interrupted or discontinued depending on severity; treatment with systemic corticosteroids may be necessary.


corneal transplant, organ transplant


Use avelumab with caution in patients who have previously had a solid organ transplant or other transplant (including corneal transplant). Immune-mediated organ transplant rejection has been reported with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor therapy.


cardiac disease, hyperlipidemia, hypertension


Use avelumab with caution in patients with cardiovascular risk factors such as hypertension, heart failure, cardiac disease, and myocardial infarction as they are at increased risk of cardiac immune-related adverse reactions such as myocarditis, vasculitis, and pericarditis. Additionally, the combination of avelumab with axitinib can cause severe and fatal cardiovascular events including myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. If avelumab and axitinib are used together, optimize the management of cardiovascular risk factors such as hypertension or hyperlipidemia; consider baseline and periodic evaluations of left ventricular ejection fraction; and monitor for signs and symptoms of cardiovascular events. Discontinue avelumab and axitinib for grade 3 or 4 cardiovascular events.


allogeneic stem cell transplant


Perform a risk/benefit analysis prior to starting treatment with a PD-1/PD-L1 blocking antibody, such as avelumab, in patients who may receive or who have a history of undergoing an allogeneic stem cell transplant (SCT). Fatal and other serious complications including hyperacute, acute, and chronic graft-versus-host-disease, sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS) previously termed veno-occlusive disease (VOD) after reduced intensity conditioning, and a steroid-requiring febrile syndrome (without an identified infectious cause) have been reported in patients who receive an allogeneic SCT before or after being treated with a PD-1/PD-L1 blocking antibody. Monitor patients closely for evidence of transplant-related complications and intervene promptly. Complications may occur despite intervening therapy between PD-1/PD-L1 blockade and allogeneic SCT.


neurological disease


Use avelumab with caution in patients who have a history of neurological disease such as myasthenia gravis or Guillain-Barre syndrome. Immune-mediated neurotoxicity has been reported with avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. Avelumab may need to be interrupted or discontinued depending on the severity of the neurotoxicity; treatment with systemic corticosteroids may also be necessary.


obesity


Monitor patients with obesity as well as those who are considered overweight for an increased risk of infusion-related reactions when treated with avelumab. Patients with a high BMI have a greater risk even if they have a low metabolic risk (i.e., fewer than 2 of diabetes, dyslipidemia, hypertension).


pregnancy


Avelumab can cause fetal harm when used during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action. There are no available data on the use of avelumab during human pregnancy. A central function of the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway is to preserve pregnancy by maintaining immune tolerance to the fetus. Animal studies indicate that PD-1/PD-L1 inhibition may increase the risk of immune-mediated rejection of the developing fetus, resulting in fetal death. Human IgG4 antibodies are known to cross the placenta, so avelumab has the potential to be transmitted to the fetus. Fetal exposure to avelumab may increase the risk of developing immune-mediated disorders or altering the normal immune response. Patients should be counseled on the potential fetal risks.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with avelumab. Avelumab can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking avelumab and for 1 month after the last dose.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking avelumab and for at least 1 month after the last dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of avelumab in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Maternal IgG is known to be present in human milk. Because avelumab is a large protein molecule (molecular weight of 147,000 Daltons), the amount of drug in milk is likely to be very low. It may also be partially destroyed in the gastrointestinal tract, resulting in minimal absorption.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Avelumab can cause fetal harm when used during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action. There are no available data on the use of avelumab during human pregnancy. A central function of the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway is to preserve pregnancy by maintaining immune tolerance to the fetus. Animal studies indicate that PD-1/PD-L1 inhibition may increase the risk of immune-mediated rejection of the developing fetus, resulting in fetal death. Human IgG4 antibodies are known to cross the placenta, so avelumab has the potential to be transmitted to the fetus. Fetal exposure to avelumab may increase the risk of developing immune-mediated disorders or altering the normal immune response. Patients should be counseled on the potential fetal risks.


Interactions

Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.


Adverse Reaction
pneumonitis


Immune-mediated pneumonitis occurred in 1.2% (grade 2, 0.6%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%; grade 5, 0.1%) of patients who received avelumab monotherapy in clinical trials (n = 1,738), leading to a permanent discontinuation of therapy in 0.3% of patients. With other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors, the incidence of pneumonitis was higher in patients who had received prior thoracic radiation. All patients that experienced pneumonitis received systemic corticosteroids, with resolution occurring in 57% of patients. All patients who had avelumab therapy held for pneumonitis (n = 5) resumed therapy after symptoms improvement; of these, none had a recurrence of pneumonitis. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonitis; an interruption or discontinuation of therapy, along with corticosteroid therapy, may be necessary for immune-mediated reactions.


cough, dyspnea


Cough was reported in 14% to 23% of patients treated with avelumab monotherapy or in combination with axitinib in 3 clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.3% or less). Dyspnea occurred in 11% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of Merkel cell patients treated with avelumab monotherapy and in 23% (grade 3 or 4, 3%) of renal cell cancer patients receiving avelumab plus axitinib; it was responsible for an interruption of therapy in more than 1% of patients receiving avelumab monotherapy for previously-treated urothelial cancer.


cholangitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia


Immune-mediated hepatitis occurred in 0.9% (grade 3, 0.6%; grade 5, 0.1%) of patients receiving avelumab monotherapy in clinical trials. All patients with hepatitis were treated with systemic corticosteroids (n = 16), with resolution occurring in 56% of patients. Of the 3 patients who had treatment interrupted, all resumed therapy with avelumab after symptom improvement and none had a recurrence of hepatitis. Immune-mediated hepatitis was more common when avelumab was administered in combination with axitinib to patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (7%; grade 3 or 4, 4.9%); resolution occurred in 31 of 35 patients treated with corticosteroids (n = 34) or non-steroidal immunosuppressants (n = 1). Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased AST and ALT were reported in 20% to 34% (grade 3 or 4, 1% to 5%) of patients receiving avelumab monotherapy in 2 clinical trials. Increased bilirubin occurred in 6% of patients with Merkel cell carcinoma receiving avelumab monotherapy in a separate noncomparative trial (grade 3 or 4, 1%). Increased alkaline phosphatase occurred in 30% of patients who received avelumab monotherapy as maintenance treatment for urothelial cancer in one randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 2.9%). Hepatotoxicity (e.g., increased AST/ALT, autoimmune hepatitis, increased bilirubin/hyperbilirubinemia, drug-induced liver injury, fulminant hepatitis, hepatocellular injury, liver disorder, liver injury) was more common when avelumab is administered in combination with axitinib (24%; grade 3 or 4, 9%) in a randomized clinical trial. Individually, increased AST occurred in 47% (grade 3 or 4, 7%), increased ALT in 50% (grade 3 or 4, 9%), and hyperbilirubinemia in 21% (grade 3 or 4, 1.4%) of patients in this trial. A recurrence of ALT 3 or more times ULN after rechallenge occurred in no patient receiving avelumab monotherapy (n = 3), in 6 patients receiving axitinib monotherapy (n = 25), and in 15 patients receiving both drugs (n = 45). Sclerosing cholangitis has been reported in postmarketing experience with avelumab.


colitis, diarrhea, gastritis


Immune-mediated colitis occurred in 1.5% (grade 3, 0.4%) of patients receiving avelumab monotherapy in clinical trials, leading to a permanent discontinuation of therapy in 0.5% of patients. The primary component of immune-mediated colitis was diarrhea; cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection/reactivation has been reported in patients with steroid-refractory immune-mediated colitis. All patients with colitis were treated with corticosteroids, with resolution occurring in 69% of patients. Of the patients who had treatment interrupted for colitis (n = 8), 5 resumed therapy upon symptom improvement; of these, 40% had recurrence of colitis. Diarrhea was reported in 17% to 23% (grade 3 or 4, 0.6% or less) of patients treated with avelumab monotherapy in 2 clinical trials (including autoimmune colitis and colitis). The incidence was much higher in a randomized clinical trial of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma who received treatment with avelumab in combination with axitinib (62%; grade 3 or 4, 8%). Immune-mediated duodenitis and gastritis occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. An interruption or discontinuation of therapy, along with corticosteroid therapy, may be necessary for immune-mediated reactions.


abdominal pain, constipation, GI obstruction, ileus


Constipation occurred in 16% to 17% of patients treated with avelumab monotherapy in 2 clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.6% to 1%); ileus was reported in at least one patient receiving avelumab in one of these trials. Serious cases of abdominal pain and GI obstruction/small intestine obstruction each occurred in 2% or more of avelumab-treated patients in another clinical trial. Abdominal pain was also reported in 16% to 22% of patients receiving avelumab either as monotherapy or in combination with axitinib (grade 3 or 4, 1.4% to 2%).


anorexia, weight loss


Anorexia or decreased appetite was reported in 14% to more than 20% of patients treated with avelumab monotherapy in 3 clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 2% or less); the incidence was slightly higher in patients who received avelumab in combination with axitinib in another clinical trial (26%; grade 3 or 4, 2.1%). Weight loss occurred in less than 20% of patients who received avelumab as monotherapy or in combination with axitinib in these trials.


adrenocortical insufficiency, hypophysitis, hypopituitarism


Treatment with avelumab can cause primary or secondary adrenal insufficiency. Immune-mediated adrenocortical insufficiency occurred in 0.5% (grade 3, 0.1%) of patients who received avelumab monotherapy in clinical trials. All patients (n = 8) were treated with systemic corticosteroids; resolution did not occur in any patient. Immune-mediated hypophysitis has been reported with the use of other PD-L1 inhibitors, which can cause hypopituitarism. A grade 2 immune-mediated pituitary disorder occurred in 1 patient (0.1%) receiving avelumab monotherapy or in combination with axitinib. Immune-mediated hypoparathyroidism occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. Initiate hormone replacement therapy as clinically indicated; an interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.


hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism


Immune-mediated thyroid disorders have been reported in patients receiving avelumab monotherapy in clinical trials including hypothyroidism in 5% (grade 3, 0.2%), hyperthyroidism in 0.4%, and thyroiditis in 0.2%. Hypothyroidism can follow hyperthyroidism. Treatment with systemic corticosteroids was required in 29% of patients with hyperthyroidism with resolution in 86% of patients; in 7% of patients with hypothyroidism with resolution in 4% of patients; and in no patients with thyroiditis with resolution in 0% of patients. In randomized clinical trials, hypothyroidism occurred in 12% of patients with advanced urothelial cancer treated with avelumab monotherapy (grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) and in 25% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with avelumab in combination with axitinib (grade 3 or 4, 0.2%). Initiate hormone replacement therapy or medical management as clinically indicated.


diabetes mellitus, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperglycemia


Treatment with avelumab can cause type 1 diabetes mellitus, including diabetic ketoacidosis. Grade 3 immune-mediated type 1 diabetes occurred in 0.1% of patients (n = 2) who received avelumab monotherapy in clinical trials, leading to discontinuation of therapy in both patients who also required ongoing insulin treatment. Grade 3 or 4 hyperglycemia occurred in 7% of patients with advanced Merkel cell cancer in a nonrandomized trial. Monitor blood sugars; an interruption of therapy may be necessary. Administer insulin as clinically indicated.


interstitial nephritis, renal failure (unspecified)


Immune-mediated interstitial nephritis with renal impairment occurred in 0.1% of patients treated with avelumab monotherapy in clinical trials, leading to permanent discontinuation of therapy and treatment with systemic corticosteroids; resolution did not occur. Increased creatinine / renal failure (unspecified) occurred in at least 2% of patients with previously treated urothelial cancer receiving avelumab therapy in one clinical trial. Acute kidney injury occurred in 1.7% of patients receiving avelumab monotherapy as maintenance treatment for advanced urothelial cancer in another randomized clinical trial. Acute kidney injury occurred in at least one patient in another nonrandomized trial of patients with metastatic Merkel cell cancer; tubulointerstitial nephritis was also reported as a reason for permanent discontinuation of therapy in this trial. Increases in creatinine were more common in patients with advanced renal cell cancer receiving combination therapy with avelumab plus axitinib (62%; grade 3 or 4, 2.3%) in a randomized clinical trial; acute kidney injury was reported in 1.4% of these patients. An interruption or discontinuation of therapy, along with corticosteroid therapy, may be necessary for immune-mediated reactions.


Guillain-Barre syndrome, myasthenia gravis


Immune-mediated Guillain-Barre syndrome, myasthenic syndrome/myasthenia gravis (including exacerbation) and encephalitis occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors in clinical trials. A Myocarditis-Myositis-Myasthenia Gravis (or Myasthenia-Like) Overlap Syndrome, reported as the co-occurrence of either 2 or all 3 adverse reactions, has also been reported. An interruption or discontinuation of therapy, along with corticosteroid therapy, may be necessary for immune-mediated reactions.


asthenia, fatigue, malaise


Fatigue, including asthenia and malaise, occurred in 35% of patients receiving avelumab monotherapy as maintenance treatment for advanced urothelial cancer (grade 3 or 4, 1.7%). In a noncomparative trial of patients with Merkel cell cancer, fatigue/asthenia was reported in 50% of patients treated with avelumab monotherapy (grade 3 or 4, 2%), and in at least 20% of patients receiving avelumab monotherapy for previously-treated urothelial cancer (grade 3 or 4, 3% or more). Fatigue/asthenia was more common in patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with avelumab in combination with axitinib (53%; grade 3 or 4, 6%).


peripheral edema


Peripheral edema occurred in 17% to 20% (grade 3 or 4, 0.4% or less) of patients treated with avelumab monotherapy in 2 single-arm, open-label trials.


arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myelitis


Musculoskeletal pain as a composite term including back pain, bone pain, myalgia, neck pain, and pain in extremities was reported in 20% to 40% (grade 3 or 4, 1.2% to 3.2%) of patients receiving avelumab monotherapy or in combination with axitinib in 4 clinical trials. Arthralgia was also reported in 16% to 17% of patients receiving avelumab monotherapy in 2 clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.6% to 1%). Increased creatine phosphokinase (CPK) occurred in 19% of patients receiving avelumab maintenance therapy for urothelial cancer (grade 3 or 4, 2.4%) in one randomized clinical trial. Immune-mediated arthritis, demyelination, myelitis, myositis/polymyositis, polymyalgia rheumatica, rhabdomyolysis (and associated sequelae), and sarcoidosis occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. A Myocarditis-Myositis-Myasthenia Gravis (or Myasthenia-Like) Overlap Syndrome, reported as the co-occurrence of either 2 or all 3 adverse reactions, has also been reported. An interruption or discontinuation of therapy, as well as treatment with corticosteroids, may be necessary for patients experiencing immune-mediated reactions.


dizziness, headache


Mild (grade 1 or 2) dizziness (14%) and headache (10%) were reported in patients with advanced Merkel cell carcinoma who received avelumab monotherapy in a single-arm, open-label clinical trial. The incidence of headache was slightly higher in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma receiving avelumab in combination with axitinib in a randomized clinical trial (21%; grade 3 or 4, 0.2%).


hypertension


Hypertension occurred in 13% of patients with advanced Merkel cell cancer who received avelumab monotherapy in a noncomparative trial (grade 3 or 4, 6%); grade 3 or 4 hypertension was also reported in at least 3% of previously treated patients with urothelial cancer who received avelumab monotherapy. The incidence of hypertension including hypertensive crisis was much higher when avelumab was administered in combination with axitinib to patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma in a randomized clinical trial (50%; grade 3 or 4, 26%).


heart failure, myocardial infarction, myocarditis, pericarditis


Avelumab in combination with axitinib can cause severe and fatal cardiovascular events. Major adverse cardiovascular events occurred in 7% of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma treated with avelumab plus axitinib in a randomized clinical trial, including death due to cardiac events (1.4%), grade 3 or 4 myocardial infarction (2.8%), and grade 3 or 4 congestive heart failure (1.8%). The median time to onset of major cardiovascular events was 4.2 months. Discontinue avelumab and axitinib for grade 3 or 4 cardiovascular events. Immune-mediated myocarditis and pericarditis occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. A Myocarditis-Myositis-Myasthenia Gravis (or Myasthenia-Like) Overlap Syndrome, reported as the co-occurrence of either 2 or all 3 adverse reactions, has also been reported. An interruption or discontinuation of therapy, along with corticosteroid therapy, may be necessary for immune-mediated reactions.


hyperamylasemia, pancreatitis


Immune-mediated pancreatitis, including hyperamylasemia and increased lipase levels, occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors in clinical trials. Increased lipase (14% to 25%; grade 3 or 4, 4% to 8%) and hyperamylasemia (8% to 21%; grade 3 or 4, 1% to 5%) occurred in patients with Merkel cell cancer or urothelial cancer in 2 clinical trials. Increased lipase was more common in patients with advanced renal cell cancer who received combination therapy with avelumab plus axitinib in a randomized clinical trial (37%; grade 3 or 4, 14%). An interruption or discontinuation of therapy, along with corticosteroid therapy, may be necessary for immune-mediated reactions.


leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia


A decreased white blood cell count (leukopenia) was reported in 20% (grade 3 or 4, 0.6%) of patients receiving maintenance therapy with avelumab for urothelial cancer in a randomized clinical trial. In an open-label, noncomparative trial, decreases from baseline in lymphocytes (lymphopenia) occurred in 51% (grade 3 or 4, 16%) of patients with advanced Merkel cell cancer receiving avelumab monotherapy. Neutropenia has been reported in patients treated with avelumab in the postmarketing setting. Immune-mediated hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors.


hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia


Hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia have been reported in patients receiving treatment with avelumab. Increased blood triglycerides occurred in 34% (grade 3 or 4, 2.1%) of patients receiving avelumab maintenance therapy for urothelial cancer; increased cholesterol occurred in 22% (grade 3 or 4, 1.2%) of these patients. The incidence of increased triglycerides (71%; grade 3 or 4, 13%) and increased cholesterol (57%; grade 3 or 4, 1.9%) was higher in patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with avelumab in combination with axitinib.


hyperkalemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia


Hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, and hypophosphatemia have been reported in patients treated with avelumab in clinical trials. Decreased blood sodium levels (28%; grade 3 or 4, 6%), increased potassium levels (24%; grade 3 or 4, 3.8%), and decreased phosphate levels (19%; grade 3 or 4, 3.2%) occurred in patients receiving avelumab maintenance therapy for urothelial cancer in a randomized clinical trial. Grade 3 or 4 hyponatremia was reported in at least 3% of previously-treated patients with urothelial cancer treated with avelumab monotherapy. The incidence of electrolyte abnormalities was higher in patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with avelumab in combination with axitinib, including decreased sodium levels (38%; grade 3 or 4, 9%) and increased potassium levels (35%; grade 3 or 4, 3%).


pericardial effusion


Grade 3 pericardial effusion resulting in permanent drug discontinuation was reported in adult patients with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma who received avelumab in a nonrandomized study (n = 88).


chills, cystitis, fever, infection, pyuria


Infection has occurred in patients treated with avelumab in clinical trials. Urinary tract infections (including urosepsis, cystitis, pyuria, and pyelonephritis) occurred in 20% of patients receiving avelumab maintenance therapy for urothelial cancer in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 6%); fever occurred in 15% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) of avelumab-treated patients in this trial. Urinary tract infection/urosepsis (grade 3 or 4, 3% or more) and fever (2% or more) were among the most frequently reported serious adverse reactions in patients receiving avelumab monotherapy for previously-treated urothelial cancer. Serious infection, specifically cellulitis, was reported in more than 1 patient with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma who received avelumab monotherapy in the other nonrandomized trial. Chills were reported in less than 20% of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma who received combination therapy with avelumab plus axitinib in a randomized clinical trial; serious cases of pneumonia occurred in 1.2% of patients receiving combination therapy. Immune-mediated systemic inflammatory response, histiocytic necrotizing lymphadenitis (Kikuchi lymphadenitis), and meningitis occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors.


antibody formation


Antibody formation has been reported in patients who received avelumab. Treatment-emergent anti-drug antibodies (ADA) occurred in 4.1% of evaluable patients who received avelumab monotherapy in clinical trials (n = 1,558). The development of treatment-emergent ADA against avelumab did not appear to alter the pharmacokinetic profile or risk of infusion-related reactions. Treatment-emergent ADA occurred in 15% of evaluable patients who received avelumab in combination with axitinib (n = 453); a new ADA method with improved sensitivity was used in this population. Patients who tested positive for treatment-emergent ADA had decreased systemic avelumab exposure; the risk of infusion-related reactions did not appear to be altered. The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay; comparison of the incidence of antibodies to avelumab in these studies may be misleading.


flushing, hypotension, infusion-related reactions


An infusion-related reaction including hypersensitivity, chills, fever, flushing, dyspnea, back pain, and hypotension occurred in 10% to 25% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less) of patients treated with avelumab monotherapy in clinical trials; 14% of patients had infusion-related reactions that occurred after the avelumab infusion was completed. Premedication with antihistamine and acetaminophen was administered to 93% of these patients. Infusion-related reactions occurred in 12% (grade 3, 1.6%) of patients treated with avelumab in combination with axitinib in a randomized clinical trial; all patients received premedication with an antihistamine and acetaminophen prior to each infusion. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infusion-related reactions; an interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.


acneiform rash, bullous rash, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, lichen planus-like eruption, maculopapular rash, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis


Rash (e.g., maculopapular rash, acneiform rash, eczema, erythema, erythema multiforme, bullous rash, and a lichen planus-like eruption) occurred in 20% to 22% (grade 3 or 4, 1.2% or less) of patients treated with avelumab monotherapy in 2 clinical trials; pruritus was also reported in 10% to 17% of these patients (grade 3 or 4, 0.3% or less). The incidence of rash was similar when avelumab was administered in combination with axitinib in another randomized clinical trial (25%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%). Palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) occurred in 33% (grade 3 or 4, 6%) of patients receiving combination therapy, which was similar to the incidence in patients treated with sunitinib in this trial (34%; grade 3 or 4, 4%). Immune-mediated dermatologic reactions occurred in 5% (grade 3, 0.1%) of patients treated with avelumab. Systemic corticosteroids were required in 29% of these patients, with resolution occurring in 41%. Immune-mediated exfoliative dermatitis, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported with other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. An interruption or discontinuation of therapy, as well as treatment with corticosteroids, may be necessary for immune-mediated reactions.


iritis, retinal detachment, uveitis, visual impairment, Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome


Immune-mediated uveitis, iritis, and other ocular inflammatory toxicities occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors clinical trials; some cases can be associated with retinal detachment. Various grades of visual impairment, including blindness, can occur. If uveitis occurs in combination with other immune-mediated reactions, consider a Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome; in this case, treatment with systemic corticosteroids may be necessary to reduce the risk of permanent vision loss.


thromboembolism, vasculitis


Venous thromboembolism occurred in 1.6% of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma who received combination therapy with avelumab plus axitinib in a randomized clinical trial. Immune-mediated vasculitis occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. An interruption or discontinuation of therapy, along with corticosteroid therapy, may be necessary for immune-mediated reactions.


dehydration


Serious adverse reactions including dehydration (2% or more) were reported in patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma who received avelumab monotherapy in a single-arm, open-label trial.


hematuria


Serious cases of hematuria occurred in at least 1.5% of patients with urothelial cancer receiving either avelumab maintenance therapy after first-line treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy or avelumab monotherapy for advanced disease in 2 clinical trials.


nausea, vomiting


Nausea was reported in 16% to 22% of patients treated with avelumab monotherapy in 3 separate clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.3% or less); vomiting occurred in up to 13% of these patients (grade 3 or 4, 1.2% or less). Nausea occurred more often in patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with avelumab in combination with axitinib in a randomized clinical trial (34%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4%); vomiting was not reported.


stomatitis


Mucositis including mucosal inflammation and stomatitis was reported in 34% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with avelumab in combination with axitinib in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 2.8%).


dysphonia


Dysphonia occurred in 31% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with avelumab plus axitinib in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.5%).


anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia


Anemia occurred in 25% of patients with advanced Merkel cell cancer treated with avelumab monotherapy in a noncomparative trial (grade 3 or 4, 9%); grade 3 or 4 anemia was also reported in at least 3% of previously treated patients with urothelial cancer receiving avelumab monotherapy. Decreased hemoglobin was reported in 21% to 28% of patients treated with avelumab monotherapy or in combination with axitinib in 2 other randomized clinical trials. Immune-mediated hemolytic anemia and aplastic anemia occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. An interruption or discontinuation of therapy, along with corticosteroid therapy, may be necessary for immune-mediated reactions.


thrombocytopenia


A decreased platelet count was reported in 18% of patients receiving avelumab maintenance therapy for urothelial cancer (grade 3 or 4, 0.6%) and in 27% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with avelumab in combination with axitinib (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%). Thrombocytopenia occurred in 27% of patients with advanced Merkel cell cancer treated with avelumab monotherapy in an open-label, nonrandomized trial (grade 3 or 4, 1%). Immune-mediated immune thrombocytopenic purpura occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors.


graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS), veno-occlusive disease (VOD)


Fatal and serious adverse events occurred in patients who received an allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplant (HSCT) prior to and after treatment with a PD-1/PD-L1 blocking antibody, such as avelumab. Monitor patients closely for evidence of transplant-related complications such as hyperacute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), acute GVHD, chronic GVHD, sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS) previously termed veno-occlusive disease (VOD) after reduced intensity conditioning, and steroid-requiring febrile syndrome (without an identified infectious cause); treat adverse events promptly. These complications may occur despite intervening therapy between PD-1 blockade and allogeneic HSCT.


paresis


Immune-mediated nerve paresis and autoimmune neuropathy occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors


organ transplant rejection


Immune-mediated solid organ transplant rejection and other transplant rejection including corneal graft rejection occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving avelumab or other PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors.


immune-mediated reactions


Immune-mediated reactions, which may be severe or fatal, can occur in patients treated with drugs that bind to either the programmed death-receptor 1 (PD-1) or the PD-ligand 1 (PD-L1), thus removing inhibition of the immune response, such as avelumab. These immune-mediated reactions can occur in any organ system or tissue and can also affect more than one body system simultaneously. Although usually occurring during treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors, immune-mediated reactions can occur at any time after starting therapy including after discontinuation of therapy. Because early identification and management is critical to safe usage of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors, closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms that may be clinical manifestations of underlying immune-mediated reactions. Initiate an appropriate workup to exclude alternative etiologies including infection in cases of suspected immune-mediated reaction. Begin medical management promptly, including specialty consultation as appropriate. An interruption or discontinuation of avelumab therapy may be necessary, depending on the severity of the reaction. In general, if an interruption or discontinuation of therapy is necessary, administer systemic corticosteroids (1 to 2 mg/kg per day of prednisone or equivalent); upon improvement to grade 1 or less, begin a steroid taper over at least 1 month. Consider additional systemic immunosuppression in patients whose symptoms are not controlled with corticosteroid therapy.


Description

Avelumab is a human IgG1 lambda monoclonal antibody that binds to the programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) found on T-cells and blocks the interaction of PD-L1 with PD-1 and B7.1 receptors on the tumor cell. It isn indicated for the treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma, advanced renal cell carcinoma, and certain types of urothelial carcinoma. Immune-mediated adverse reactions including colitis, pneumonitis, hepatitis, endocrinopathies, and nephritis have been reported with avelumab therapy in clinical trials; treatment with high-dose corticosteroids may be necessary for patients who develop immune-mediated toxicity.

Mechanism Of Action

Avelumab is a human IgG1 lambda monoclonal antibody that binds to the programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1). PD-L1 may be expressed on tumor cells and tumor-infiltrating immune cells and can contribute to inhibition of the anti-tumor immune response in the tumor microenvironment. Binding of PD-L1 to the PD-1 and B7.1 receptors found on T cells and antigen-presenting cells suppresses cytotoxic T-cell activity, T-cell proliferation, and cytokine production. Avelumab binds PD-L1 and blocks the interaction of PD-L1 with PD-1 and B7.1 receptors. Blocking the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway improves the anti-tumor immune response by reducing immunosuppressive signals between immune cells and tumor cells. Additionally, avelumab induced antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) in vitro. In mice models, inhibiting PD-1 activity deceased tumor growth.

Pharmacokinetics

Avelumab is administered intravenously. In patients who received avelumab 10 mg/kg IV every 2 weeks, the total systemic clearance was 0.59 L/day (CV, 25%) and the terminal half-life was 6.1 days (CV, 92%). Clearance decreased from baseline by 32% (CV, 36%) over time in patients with Merkel cell carcinoma, which is not considered clinically important; there was no evidence to suggest a change of avelumab clearance over time in patients with urothelial or renal cell carcinoma. The mean steady-state volume of distribution (Vd) was 4.7 L (CV, 44%). Avelumab is eliminated primarily by proteolytic degradation.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

Steady-state avelumab concentrations were reached at approximately 4 to 6 weeks following an every 2-week dosing regimen; the systemic accumulation was approximately 1.25-fold. Avelumab exposure increased proportionally in the dose range of 10 to 20 mg/kg IV every 2 weeks.

Hepatic Impairment

Mild or moderate hepatic impairment (bilirubin less than 3 times the upper limit of normal [ULN]) did not have a clinically meaningful impact on the pharmacokinetics of avelumab clearance. The effect of severe hepatic impairment (bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN) on the pharmacokinetics of avelumab is unknown.

Renal Impairment

Renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 89 mL/min) did not have a clinically meaningful impact on the pharmacokinetics of avelumab.

Pediatrics

Age and body weight have no clinically meaningful effect on the steady-state exposure of avelumab based on population pharmacokinetic data. Drug exposure for monoclonal antibodies is generally similar between adults and pediatric patients age 12 years and older.

Geriatric

Age did not have a clinically meaningful impact on the pharmacokinetics of avelumab.

Gender Differences

Gender did not have a clinically meaningful impact on the pharmacokinetics of avelumab.

Ethnic Differences

Race did not have a clinically meaningful impact on the pharmacokinetics of avelumab.

Obesity

Body weight did not have a clinically meaningful impact on the pharmacokinetics of avelumab.

Other

Tumor Characteristics
PD-L1 status and tumor burden did not have a clinically meaningful impact on the pharmacokinetics of avelumab.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal
Premedication
Premedicate all patients with an antihistamine and acetaminophen prior to the first 4 avelumab infusions. Use clinical judgment to determine the need for premeditation prior to subsequent infusions based on the presence and severity of any infusion reactions.


Injectable Administration

Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Intravenous Administration

Dilution
Add the required amount/volume of drug to a 250 mL bag of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Mix by gentle inversion; avoid foaming or excessive shearing.
Discard any unused drug left in the vial.
Storage following dilution: Store at room temperature (up to 25 degrees C or 77 degrees F) for up to 4 hours from the time of dilution, or refrigerated (2 to 8 degrees C; 36 to 46 degrees F) for up to 24 hours from the time of dilution. If refrigerated, allow the diluted solution to warm to room temperature prior to administration. Do not freeze or shake; protect from light.
Administration
Administer the diluted solution IV over 60 minutes.
Use a sterile, non-pyrogenic, low-protein-binding 0.2-micron in-line filter.
Do not administer other drugs through the same infusion line.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

800 mg IV every 2 weeks.

Geriatric

800 mg IV every 2 weeks.

Adolescents

800 mg IV every 2 weeks.

Children

Children 12 years of age: 800 mg IV every 2 weeks.
Children less than 12 years: safety and effectiveness not established.

Dosage Forms

BAVENCIO 200mg/10mL Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Treatment-Related Immune-Mediated Hepatitis
Monotherapy
No Tumor Involvement of the LiverAST or ALT level of more than 3 to 8 times the ULN or a total bilirubin level of more than 1.5 to 3 times the ULN: Hold avelumab and administer corticosteroids (i.e., prednisone 1 to 2 mg/kg per day or equivalent, followed by a 1-month taper). Resume therapy when the adverse event recovers to grade 1 or less after the corticosteroid taper. Permanently discontinue avelumab in patients who do not have a complete or partial resolution of toxicity or who cannot reduce their daily prednisone dose to less than 10 mg (or equivalent) within 12 weeks of initiating steroids. AST or ALT level more than 8 times the ULN or a total bilirubin level more than 3 times the ULN: Permanently discontinue avelumab and administer corticosteroids (i.e., prednisone 1 to 2 mg/kg per day or equivalent, followed by a 1-month taper starting when the toxicity resolves to grade 1 or less).Tumor Involvement of the LiverBaseline AST or ALT level at the ULN or less: Hold or permanently discontinue avelumab based on recommendations for hepatitis with no tumor involvement of the liver.Baseline AST or ALT level of more than 1 to 3 times the ULNAST or ALT level of more than 5 to 10 times the ULN: Hold avelumab and administer corticosteroids (i.e., prednisone 1 to 2 mg/kg per day or equivalent, followed by a 1-month taper). Resume therapy when the adverse event recovers to grade 1 or less after the corticosteroid taper. Permanently discontinue avelumab in patients who do not have a complete or partial resolution of toxicity or who cannot reduce their daily prednisone dose to less than 10 mg (or equivalent) within 12 weeks of initiating steroids. Baseline AST or ALT level of more than 3 to 5 times the ULNAST or ALT level of more than 8 to 10 times the ULN: Hold avelumab and administer corticosteroids (i.e., prednisone 1 to 2 mg/kg per day or equivalent, followed by a 1-month taper). Resume therapy when the adverse event recovers to grade 1 or less after the corticosteroid taper. Permanently discontinue avelumab in patients who do not have a complete or partial resolution of toxicity or who cannot reduce their daily prednisone dose to less than 10 mg (or equivalent) within 12 weeks of initiating steroids. Any Baseline AST or ALT levelAST or ALT level more than 10 times the ULN or a total bilirubin level to more than 3-times the ULN: Permanently discontinue avelumab and administer corticosteroids (i.e., prednisone 1 to 2 mg/kg per day or equivalent, followed by a 1-month taper starting when the toxicity resolves to grade 1 or less).
Combination Therapy with Axitinib
AST or ALT level of 3 to less than 10 times the ULN and a total bilirubin level of less than 2 times the ULN: Hold both avelumab and axitinib and consider corticosteroid therapy. Consider rechallenge with avelumab or axitinib (or sequential rechallenge with both) when hepatic enzymes recover to grade 1 or less. Per axitinib manufacturer guidance, consider a dose reduction if rechallenging with axitinib.AST or ALT level of 10 times the ULN or more OR an AST or ALT level more than 3 times the ULN and a total bilirubin level 2 times the ULN or more: Permanently discontinue avelumab and axitinib and consider corticosteroid therapy.

Renal Impairment

Treatment-Related Immune-Mediated Nephritis with Renal Dysfunction Grade 2 or 3 increased serum creatinine (SCr) level: Hold avelumab and administer corticosteroids (i.e., prednisone 1 to 2 mg/kg per day or equivalent, followed by a 1-month taper). Resume therapy when the adverse event recovers to grade 1 or less after the corticosteroid taper. Permanently discontinue avelumab in patients who do not have a complete or partial resolution of toxicity or who cannot reduce their daily prednisone dose to less than 10 mg (or equivalent) within 12 weeks of initiating steroids. Grade 4 increased SCr level: Permanently discontinue avelumab and administer corticosteroids (i.e., prednisone 1 to 2 mg/kg per day or equivalent, followed by a 1-month taper starting when the toxicity resolves to grade 1 or less).

© 2026 Elsevier