=== Alvimopan — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2807)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alvimopan is the first oral, gastrointestinal-specific mu-opioid receptor antagonist and is indicated to accelerate the time to upper and lower gastrointestinal recovery following partial large or small bowel resection surgery with primary anastomosis (i.e., prevention of postoperative ileus).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 24 mg/day PO (administered as 12 mg PO twice daily) with a maximum of 15 doses.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Alvimopan is contraindicated for use in individuals who have taken therapeutic doses of opioids for more than 7 consecutive days immediately before starting alvimopan.

ALVIMOPAN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Entereg

Indication Specific Dosing

For the acceleration of time to upper and lower gastrointestinal recovery following partial large or small bowel resection surgery with primary anastomosis (i.e., postoperative ileus prophylaxis)

Oral dosage
Adults


A single 12 mg PO dose is given 30 minutes to 5 hours before surgery. Start subsequent doses of 12 mg PO twice daily the day after surgery (i.e., post-op day 1) until discharge for a maximum of 7 days. Max: 15 doses/patient. All doses are given in-hospital only. Only for use in hospitalized patients in hospitals that have registered and met all requirements for the Alvimopan REMS program. More information is available at alvimopanREMS.com or 1-800-278-0340. CLINICAL DATA: One study evaluated doses of 6 mg and 12 mg in patients undergoing bowel surgery. The mean time to GI function recovery (defined as time to tolerating food and first bowel movement) was significantly accelerated for alvimopan-treated patients. The mean difference compared to placebo was 15 hours for alvimopan 6 mg (hazard ratio = 1.28; p is less than 0.05) and 22 hours for alvimopan 12 mg (hazard ratio = 1.54; p is less than 0.001). The time until the hospital discharge order was written was also accelerated in the alvimopan 12 mg group (hazard ratio = 1.42; p is less than 0.003), with a mean difference of 20 hours compared with placebo. Similar results were found with a subsequent study in patients undergoing partial bowel resection with primary anastomosis. A significantly accelerated GI tract function recovery and a reduced time to hospital discharge were noted compared to placebo. Alvimopan was also associated with reduced postoperative ileus-related morbidity (e.g., postoperative nasogastric tube placement, small intestinal obstruction) compared with placebo.


For the treatment of opiate agonist-induced constipation†

Oral dosage
Adults


Limited data suggest that 0.5 mg or 1 mg PO once daily may be effective. Alvimopan was evaluated in a phase III trial involving patients who had received chronic opioid therapy for nonmalignant pain for at least 1 month, with a minimum oral morphine dose of 10 mg/day (or equivalent), and who had < 3 bowel movements per week (without aid of laxatives or enemas). The proportion of patients having at least 1 bowel movement within 8 hours after each dose of alvimopan during a 21-day period was 43% and 54% for the 0.5 mg and 1 mg doses, respectively, and 29% for placebo (p < 0.001 for both active doses compared to placebo).


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Alvimopan is contraindicated for use in individuals who have taken therapeutic doses of opioids for more than 7 consecutive days immediately before starting alvimopan. Individuals recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists (e.g., abdominal pain, nausea/vomiting, diarrhea). Additionally, individuals receiving greater than 3 doses of an opioid within the week prior to surgery were not studied in clinical trials; use with caution in these individuals and monitor for gastrointestinal adverse reactions.
Alvimopan has not been studied in patients having pancreatic or gastric anastomosis. Therefore, use is not recommended in these patients.

myocardial infarction, requires a specialized care setting


Due to a potential risk for myocardial infarction (MI) with long-term use, alvimopan is for short-term use only. Administration of alvimopan requires a specialized care setting; it must be given in a hospital only. Individuals should not receive more than 15 doses of alvimopan. There is a risk evaluation and management program that restricts use of alvimopan to hospital settings enrolled in and meeting all requirements of the program; more information is available at alvimopanREMS.com or 1-800-278-0340.


GI obstruction


Alvimopan should not be used in people with complete GI obstruction or in individuals who have surgery for correction of complete bowel obstruction.


Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Alvimopan is not recommended in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) and hepatic failure because of the increased risk of serious adverse reactions (including dose-related adverse reactions); up to a 10-fold higher plasma concentration of alvimopan is possible. People with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate hepatic impairment (and Child-Pugh class B) do not require dosage adjustment; however, they should be closely monitored for adverse events (e.g., diarrhea, gastrointestinal pain, cramping) that could indicate high alvimopan or 'metabolite' concentrations; alvimopan should be discontinued if adverse reactions occur.


renal failure, renal impairment


Alvimopan is not recommended for use in people with renal failure or end-stage renal disease. Individuals with mild to severe renal impairment do not require dosage adjustments; however, such individuals should be monitored for adverse effects. Alvimopan should be discontinued if adverse effects occur.


Japanese patients


Monitor Japanese patients closely for gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions (e.g., diarrhea, gastrointestinal pain, cramping). The exposure to alvimopan in Japanese subjects was approximately 2-fold greater than in Caucasian subjects. GI adverse reactions in Japanese patients could indicate high alvimopan or metabolite concentrations, and alvimopan should be discontinued if adverse reactions occur.


pregnancy


Available data regarding use of alvimopan during pregnancy are limited, and are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. No fetal harm was observed in animal reproduction studies with oral administration of alvimopan during organogenesis to pregnant rats at doses 68 to 136 times the recommended human oral dose, or with intravenous administration during organogenesis to pregnant rats and pregnant rabbits at doses 3.4 to 6.8 times, and 5 to 10 times, respectively, the recommended human oral dose.


breast-feeding


Use alvimopan with caution during breast-feeding.There are no data on the presence of alvimopan in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Alvimopan and its metabolite are detected in the milk of lactating rats following intravenous administration, but it is not known if alvimopan is present in rat milk following oral administration. The concentration of alvimopan in human milk is expected to be very low since oral bioavailability is low and the molecular weight is slightly high. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for alvimopan and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from alvimopan or from the underlying maternal condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data regarding use of alvimopan during pregnancy are limited, and are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. No fetal harm was observed in animal reproduction studies with oral administration of alvimopan during organogenesis to pregnant rats at doses 68 to 136 times the recommended human oral dose, or with intravenous administration during organogenesis to pregnant rats and pregnant rabbits at doses 3.4 to 6.8 times, and 5 to 10 times, respectively, the recommended human oral dose.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Codeine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Alvimopan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Although the concomitant use of mild to moderate inhibitors of P-gp did not influence the pharmacokinetics of alvimopan, the concomitant use of strong P-gp inhibitors, such as cyclosporine, has not been studied. Coadministration of cyclosporine and alvimopan may result in elevated concentrations of alvimopan. If these drugs are coadministered, patients should be monitored for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect of alvimopan.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Alvimopan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Although the concomitant use of mild to moderate inhibitors of P-gp did not influence the pharmacokinetics of alvimopan, the concomitant use of strong P-gp inhibitors, such as quinidine, has not been studied. Coadministration of quinidine and alvimopan may result in elevated concentrations of alvimopan. If these drugs are coadministered, patients should be monitored for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect of alvimopan.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Alvimopan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Although the concomitant use of mild to moderate inhibitors of P-gp did not influence the pharmacokinetics of alvimopan, the concomitant use of strong P-gp inhibitors, such as itraconazole has not been studied. Coadministration of itraconazole and alvimopan may result in elevated concentrations of alvimopan. If these drugs are coadministered, patients should be monitored for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect of alvimopan.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Methadone: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Methylnaltrexone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of methylnaltrexone and other opiate antagonists, like alvimopan. There is a potential for additive effect of opioid receptor antagonism and increased risk of opioid withdrawal with concomitant use.
Morphine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Naldemedine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alvimopan and other opiate antagonists, like naldemedine. There is a potential for additive effect of opioid receptor antagonism and increased risk of opioid withdrawal with concomitant use.
Naloxegol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alvimopan and other opiate antagonists, like naloxegol. There is a potential for additive effect of opioid receptor antagonism and increased risk of opioid withdrawal with concomitant use.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Alvimopan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Although the concomitant use of mild to moderate inhibitors of P-gp did not influence the pharmacokinetics of alvimopan, the concomitant use of strong P-gp inhibitors, such as quinidine, has not been studied. Coadministration of quinidine and alvimopan may result in elevated concentrations of alvimopan. If these drugs are coadministered, patients should be monitored for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect of alvimopan.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Alvimopan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Although the concomitant use of mild to moderate inhibitors of P-gp did not influence the pharmacokinetics of alvimopan, the concomitant use of strong P-gp inhibitors, such as quinine has not been studied. Coadministration of quinine and alvimopan may result in elevated concentrations of alvimopan. If these drugs are coadministered, patients should be monitored for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect of alvimopan.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
traMADol: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Alvimopan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Although the concomitant use of mild to moderate inhibitors of P-gp did not influence the pharmacokinetics of alvimopan, the concomitant use of strong P-gp inhibitors, such as verapamil has not been studied. Coadministration of verapamil and alvimopan may result in elevated concentrations of alvimopan. If these drugs are coadministered, patients should be monitored for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect of alvimopan.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Alvimopan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Although the concomitant use of mild to moderate inhibitors of P-gp did not influence the pharmacokinetics of alvimopan, the concomitant use of strong P-gp inhibitors, such as verapamil has not been studied. Coadministration of verapamil and alvimopan may result in elevated concentrations of alvimopan. If these drugs are coadministered, patients should be monitored for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect of alvimopan.


Adverse Reaction
anemia


Hematologic disorders have been reported with alvimopan therapy. During clinical trials, anemia was reported in 5.2—5.4% of patients taking alvimopan compared to 4.2—5.4% of patients taking placebo.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence


Gastrointestinal disorders have been reported with alvimopan therapy. During clinical trials, constipation was reported in 4—9.7% of patients taking alvimopan compared to 3.9—7.6% of patients taking placebo. Dyspepsia was reported in 5.9—7% of patients taking alvimopan compared to 4.6—4.8% of patients taking placebo, and flatulence was reported in 3.1—8.7% of patients taking alvimopan compared to 4.5—7.7% of patients taking placebo. Discontinue alvimopan therapy if diarrhea, abdominal pain, or cramping occur as these adverse events could indicate high alvimopan serum concentrations.


hypokalemia


During clinical trials, hypokalemia was reported in 6.9—9.5% of patients taking alvimopan compared to 7.5—8.5% of patients taking placebo.


back pain


During clinical trials, back pain was reported in 3.4% of patients taking alvimopan compared to 3.2—3.5% of patients taking placebo.


urinary retention


During clinical trials, urinary retention was reported in 3.2—3.5% of patients taking alvimopan compared to 2.1—2.3% of patients taking placebo.


myocardial infarction


Due to a potential risk for myocardial infarction (MI) with long-term use, alvimopan is for short-term hospital use only. In a 12-month study of patients treated with opioids for chronic pain, MI occurred more frequently in patients taking alvimopan 0.5 mg twice daily compared to placebo. Most cases occurred between 1 and 4 months after treatment initiation. This increase in the risk of MI was not duplicated in any other study of alvimopan, including studies in patients receiving alvimopan 12 mg twice daily for 7 days after bowel resection. Causality has not been established.


Description

Alvimopan is the first oral, gastrointestinal-specific mu-opioid receptor antagonist and is indicated to accelerate the time to upper and lower gastrointestinal recovery following partial large or small bowel resection surgery with primary anastomosis (i.e., prevention of postoperative ileus). The efficacy of alvimopan in the management of postoperative ileus was evaluated in 6 multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled studies. Primary approval was supported by trials in patients undergoing bowel resection for benign or malignant colorectal or small bowel disease; expanded approval was supported by a Phase IV controlled trail in patients undergoing radical cystectomy, an extensive surgical procedure that includes resecting a segment of the bowel to reconstruct the lower urinary tract. Because alvimopan is a gastrointestinal-specific mu-opioid receptor antagonist, it does not block the desired pain-relieving effects of opioid agonists which may be used concurrently. Alvimopan has limited systemic bioavailability and does not cross the blood-brain barrier due to its large molecular size.Alvimopan is only available to hospitals that meet all the requirements of a restricted access program, Alvimopan Shared System REMS Program. Requirements of the program include education of all staff involved in the medication use process, limiting the duration of treatment to 15 dosesor less, and restricting alvimopan use to hospitalized patients only. More information is available at alvimopanREMS.com or 1-800-278-0340.

Mechanism Of Action

Alvimopan is a peripherally-selective, mu-opioid receptor antagonist that is restricted in activity to the GI tract. Postoperative ileus can affect all segments of the gastrointestinal tract and is characterized by abdominal distention and bloating, nausea, vomiting, pain, accumulation of gas and fluid in the bowel, and delayed passage of flatus and defecation, potentially prolonging gastrointestinal recover hospitalization after bowel surgery. Opioid agonists (e.g., morphine) are used universally and effectively for the treatment of postoperative pain; however, their use may result in inhibition of gastrointestinal motility and contribute to the development of postoperative ileus. Because alvimopan acts within the gastrointestinal tract, it antagonizes opioid-induced gastrointestinal dysfunction while maintaining the central analgesic effects of opioid agonists. In isolated guinea pig ileum, alvimopan competitively antagonizes the effects of morphine on contractility.

Pharmacokinetics

Alvimopan is administered orally. After administration, it undergoes amide hydrolysis by intestinal flora to a 'metabolite'; there is no evidence of hepatic metabolism. Biliary secretion is the primary pathway for elimination, with renal excretion accounting for 35% of total clearance. The 'metabolite' is eliminated in the feces and in the urine as unchanged 'metabolite'. The mean terminal phase half-life after multiple oral doses ranges from 10—17 hours; for the 'metabolite', the mean terminal phase half-life is 10—18 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Alvimopan undergoes amide hydrolysis by intestinal flora to a 'metabolite' after oral administration; both alvimopan and the 'metabolite' are mu-opioid receptor antagonists. The absolute bioavailability is estimated to be 6%. High fat meals decrease the extent and rate of alvimopan absorption; however, the clinical significance of this is unknown. Peak plasma concentrations of alvimopan occur in approximately 2 hours. The time to reach peak plasma concentration of the 'metabolite' is 36 hours. Plasma concentrations increase proportionally with increasing doses between 6 mg and 18 mg, but less than proportionally from 18 mg to 24 mg. In patients with postoperative ileus, plasma concentrations of both alvimopan and the 'metabolite' are higher than concentrations in healthy subjects. Alvimopan and its 'metabolite' are highly protein bound (80% and 94%, respectively).

Hepatic Impairment

On average, a 1.5—2 fold increase in alvimopan plasma concentration is seen in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B). However, a 10-fold higher plasma concentration of alvimopan is possible in patients with hepatic disease or severe hepatic impairment.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration

Capsules
Administer with or without food.
Not for outpatient use. Alvimopan is only for short-term use and is administered for no more than 15 doses in a hospital inpatient setting only.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

24 mg/day PO (administered as 12 mg PO twice daily) with a maximum of 15 doses.

Elderly

24 mg/day PO (administered as 12 mg PO twice daily) with a maximum of 15 doses.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Alvimopan 12mg Oral capsule

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

It appears that no dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B); however, in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C), use is not recommended.

Renal Impairment

It appears that no dosage adjustment is needed in patients mild to severe renal impairment; however, in patients with end stage renal disease, use is not recommended.

© 2026 Elsevier