=== Rucaparib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 4918)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Rucaparib is an oral poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 600 mg PO twice daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, fever, infection, pharyngitis, sepsis, anaphylactoid reactions, flushing, wheezing, hypercalcemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, arrhythmia exacerbation, heart failure, hypertension, myocardial infarction

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. drug-induced bone marrow suppression Do not start therapy with rucaparib until patients have recovered from any drug-induced bone marrow suppression caused by previous chemotherapy (to... Emetic risk: Moderate/High

Brand Names
  - Rubraca

Dosage Forms
  - Rubraca 200mg Tablet
  - Rubraca 250mg Tablet
  - Rubraca 300mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of BRCA mutation-positive (germline and/or somatic) epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer in patients who have received 2 or more prior chemotherapy regimens, as monotherapy†
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          Dosage not available.
      Heading
      for the maintenance treatment of BRCA-mutated (germline and/or somatic) recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer after a complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy, as monotherapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          600 mg orally twice daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. The investigator-assessed median progression-free survival time was significantly improved in patients with BRCA-mutated, platinum-sensitive, recurrent ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube carcinoma who received rucaparib compared with placebo (16.6 months vs. 5.4 months; hazard ratio (HR) = 0.23; 95% CI, 0.16 to 0.34) in a subgroup analysis (n = 196) of a randomized (2:1), phase 3 (ARIEL3) trial. At the final overall survival (OS) analysis, the median OS times were 45.9 months and 47.8 months (HR = 0.83; 95% CI: 0.58 to 1.19) in patients with a BRCA-mutation who received rucaparib and placebo, respectively. The median age was 58 (range, 42 to 81) years in patients with a BRCA-mutation who received rucaparib; in these patients, all had received at least 2 (range, 2 to 5) previous platinum-based chemotherapy regimens and 22% of patients had received prior bevacizumab therapy.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of ovarian cancer
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of BRCA-mutated (germline and/or somatic) metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) in patients who have previously been treated with androgen receptor-directed therapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          600 mg PO twice daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients should concurrently receive treatment with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analog or have had a bilateral orchiectomy. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with rucaparib significantly improved the median radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS) compared with an androgen receptor pathway inhibitor (ARPI; i.e., enzalutamide or abiraterone) or docetaxel (11.2 months vs. 6.4 months) in patients with progressive BRCA- or ATM-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (TRITON3); patients in this trial were required to have progressed on treatment with one ARPI and could not have received prior chemotherapy in the castration-resistant setting. An exploratory analysis of patients with ATM mutations (25% of the total population) indicated that the rPFS improvement in the overall population was primarily attributable to the results in the BRCA-mutated subgroup. The median overall survival was 23.2 months in the rucaparib arm compared with 21.2 months in the ARPI/docetaxel arm; 52% of BRCA-mutated patients randomized to receive ARPI/docetaxel crossed over to receive rucaparib after disease progression. The overall response rate (ORR) was 45.1% in patients treated with rucaparib compared with 17.1% in patients treated with ARPI or docetaxel (complete response, 10% vs. 2%). Treatment with rucaparib resulted in a confirmed ORR of 44% in patients with BRCA-mutated mCRPC who had been treated with an ARPI and taxane-based chemotherapy in another ongoing multicenter, noncomparative trial (TRITON2). The median duration of response was not evaluable.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of prostate cancer

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    drug-induced bone marrow suppression
    General Information
    Do not start therapy with rucaparib until patients have recovered from any drug-induced bone marrow suppression caused by previous chemotherapy (to grade 1 or less). Monitor complete blood counts at baseline and monthly thereafter. An interruption of therapy and/or dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hematologic toxicity occurs. If therapy is interrupted and hematologic toxicities do not recover to grade 1 or less within 4 weeks, discontinue rucaparib treatment and refer the patient to a hematologist for further evaluation, including bone marrow analysis and blood sample for cytogenetics.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Rucaparib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. There are no available data of rucaparib use during human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. Administration of rucaparib to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in embryo-fetal death in all animals at exposures equal to 0.04 times the AUC expected at recommended human doses.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with rucaparib. Rucaparib may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking rucaparib and for 6 months after the last dose. Rucaparib can cause male-mediated teratogenicity. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during rucaparib treatment and for 3 months after the last dose. Counsel patients to abstain from sperm donation during rucaparib therapy and for 3 months after the last dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking rucaparib and for 2 weeks after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of rucaparib in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Rucaparib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. There are no available data of rucaparib use during human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. Administration of rucaparib to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in embryo-fetal death in all animals at exposures equal to 0.04 times the AUC expected at recommended human doses.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with rucaparib. Rucaparib may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking rucaparib and for 6 months after the last dose. Rucaparib can cause male-mediated teratogenicity. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during rucaparib treatment and for 3 months after the last dose. Counsel patients to abstain from sperm donation during rucaparib therapy and for 3 months after the last dose.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with rucaparib may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rucaparib could decrease dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to dihydrocodeine. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Rucaparib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of codeine if clinically appropriate. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal until stable drug effects are achieved and consider increasing the codeine dose if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like rucaparib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rucaparib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. If rucaparib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If rucaparib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. If rucaparib is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If rucaparib is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alosetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and rucaparib unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and rucaparib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with rucaparib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amitriptyline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; a dose reduction of amitriptyline may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of amitriptyline. Amitriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate and rucaparib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in celecoxib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of rucaparib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus rucaparib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of codeine if clinically appropriate. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal until stable drug effects are achieved and consider increasing the codeine dose if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. If rucaparib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If rucaparib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Monitor for anemia and hypoxia if concomitant use of rucaparib with belzutifan is necessary due to increased plasma exposure of belzutifan which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of belzutifan as recommended if anemia or hypoxia occur. Belzutifan is a CYP2C19 substrate and rucaparib is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if rucaparib treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Rucaparib may increase bendamustine exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions (e.g., myelosuppression, infection, hepatotoxicity). Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and rucaparib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when rucaparib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping rucaparib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If rucaparib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and rucaparib is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and rucaparib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when rucaparib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping rucaparib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If rucaparib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and rucaparib is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of codeine if clinically appropriate. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal until stable drug effects are achieved and consider increasing the codeine dose if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of codeine if clinically appropriate. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal until stable drug effects are achieved and consider increasing the codeine dose if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.55-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely during coadministration of rucaparib; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may increase carbamazepine concentrations. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in celecoxib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in celecoxib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tramadol-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, seizures, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; the risk is greatest if rucaparib is added to a stable dose of tramadol. Consider decreasing the dose of tramadol if necessary. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and tramadol is metabolized by both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Coadministration with a CYP3A4 inhibitor may result in a greater amount of tramadol metabolism via CYP2D6, and greater levels of the active metabolite, M1.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amitriptyline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; a dose reduction of amitriptyline may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of amitriptyline. Amitriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate and rucaparib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of codeine if clinically appropriate. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal until stable drug effects are achieved and consider increasing the codeine dose if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like rucaparib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rucaparib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cisapride-related adverse reactions if concurrent treatment with rucaparib is necessary, as plasma concentrations of cisapride may increase. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Citalopram: (Moderate) The maximum daily dose of citalopram in patients receiving concomitant treatment with rucaparib is 20 mg. Monitor for an increase in citalopram-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation. Citalopram is a CYP2C19 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in clomipramine-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary as plasma concentrations of clomipramine may increase; a dose reduction of clomipramine may be necessary. Clomipramine is a CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 substrate; rucaparib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of clopidogrel if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Clopidogrel is a prodrug that is metabolized to its active metabolite by CYP2C19. Rucaparib is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use may reduce concentrations of the active metabolite, therefore decreasing the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in clozapine-related adverse reactions (e.g., sedation, orthostasis, seizures, and QT prolongation) if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of clozapine if needed. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for a lack of efficacy, increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. Clozapine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 substrate. Rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor as well as a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of clozapine.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of codeine if clinically appropriate. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal until stable drug effects are achieved and consider increasing the codeine dose if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of codeine if clinically appropriate. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal until stable drug effects are achieved and consider increasing the codeine dose if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of codeine if clinically appropriate. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal until stable drug effects are achieved and consider increasing the codeine dose if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of codeine if clinically appropriate. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal until stable drug effects are achieved and consider increasing the codeine dose if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of codeine if clinically appropriate. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal until stable drug effects are achieved and consider increasing the codeine dose if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of codeine if clinically appropriate. If rucaparib is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal until stable drug effects are achieved and consider increasing the codeine dose if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor cyclosporine levels and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of cyclosporine.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Diazepam is a CYP2C19 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of diazepam.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diclofenac-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diclofenac-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Disopyramide is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of disopyramide. Specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide; however, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Coadministration of disopyramide with CYP3A4 inhibitors could result in a potentially fatal interaction.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Eliglustat: (Major) In poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs), coadministration of rucaparib and eliglustat is not recommended. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A substrate. In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias) in these patients.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with rucaparib if possible due to the increased risk of erlotinib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable and severe reactions occur, reduce the dose of erlotinib by 50 mg decrements. Erlotinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2; rucaparib is a CYP3A and CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A/CYP1A2 inhibitor increased erlotinib exposure by 39% and increased the erlotinib Cmax by 17%.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of felodipine and rucaparib is necessary. Felodipine is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4 and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase felodipine exposure.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. If rucaparib is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If rucaparib is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fezolinetant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fezolinetant and rucaparib is contraindicated due to the risk of increased fezolinetant exposure which may increase the risk of fezolinetant-related adverse effects. Fezolinetant is a CYP1A2 substrate; rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased fezolinetant overall exposure by 360%.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or rucaparib; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) Monitor for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other flibanserin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with multiple weak CYP3A4 inhibitors, including rucaparib, is necessary. Flibanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase flibanserin plasma concentrations.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased fluoxetine-related adverse effects if coadministered with rucaparib. Concurrent use may result in increased fluoxetine exposure. Fluoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Fluvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in fluvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Fluvastatin is a CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in fosphenytoin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Fosphenytoin is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrate. Rucaparib is a weak inhibitor of both of these isoenzymes. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of fosphenytoin.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like rucaparib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rucaparib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like rucaparib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rucaparib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like rucaparib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rucaparib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of isradipine with rucaparib is necessary. Isradipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to a maximum of 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with rucaparib as concurrent use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of lemborexant with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lidocaine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lidocaine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lidocaine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations.
Lomitapide: (Major) The lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg per day PO during concurrent use with rucaparib. Lomitapide is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4 and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and rucaparib; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing rucaparib. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 substrate; rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting rucaparib therapy. Avoid initiation of rucaparib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable rucaparib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary as concurrent use may increase mefloquine exposure and mefloquine-related adverse events. Mefloquine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. If rucaparib is discontinued, consider increasing the methadone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Methadone is a CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 substrate; rucaparib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19. Coadministration can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone. If rucaparib is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and rucaparib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in midazolam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of midazolam by 1.4-fold.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of rucaparib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in nateglinide-related adverse effects, such as hypoglycemia, if concomitant use with rucaparib is necessary; a nateglinide dosage reduction may be required. Concomitant use may increase nateglinide exposure. Nateglinide is a CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of nimodipine with rucaparib is necessary; a reduction of the nimodipine dose may be necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean peak nimodipine plasma concentrations by 50% and increased the mean AUC by 90%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with rucaparib due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased fluoxetine-related adverse effects if coadministered with rucaparib. Concurrent use may result in increased fluoxetine exposure. Fluoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Ospemifene: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ospemifene-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Ospemifene is a substrate of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4, while rucaparib is a weak inhibitor of these 3 isoenzymes. Concomitant use may increase ospemifene plasma concentrations.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. If rucaparib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If rucaparib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amitriptyline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; a dose reduction of amitriptyline may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of amitriptyline. Amitriptyline is a CYP2D6 substrate and rucaparib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in phenobarbital-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Phenobarbital is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrate. Rucaparib is a weak inhibitor of both of these isoenzymes. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of phenobarbital.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in phenobarbital-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Phenobarbital is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrate. Rucaparib is a weak inhibitor of both of these isoenzymes. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of phenobarbital.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in phenytoin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Phenytoin is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrate. Rucaparib is a weak inhibitor of both of these isoenzymes. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of phenytoin.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimozide with rucaparib due to the increased risk of cardiac effects. Pimozide is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Ventricular arrhythmias associated with prolonged QT intervals have occurred with concomitant treatment with both strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors; the manufacturer of pimozide advises that less potent CYP3A4 inhibitors should also be avoided. There is a theoretical potential for additional pimozide-related effects via inhibition of CYP1A2.
Pirfenidone: (Major) Reduce the dose of pirfenidone to 534 mg three times daily (1,602 mg/day) if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Pirfenidone is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased pirfenidone exposure by 81%.
Porfimer: (Major) Avoid coadministration of porfimer with rucaparib due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. All patients treated with porfimer will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like rucaparib may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Primidone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in primidone-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Primidone is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrate. Rucaparib is a weak inhibitor of both of these isoenzymes. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of primidone.
Propafenone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of propafenone and rucaparib; concurrent use may increase plasma concentrations of propafenone, which may lead to cardiac arrhythmias and exaggerated beta-blocking activity. Propafenone is a CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and CYP1A2 substrate; rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor, and a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for hypotension and bradycardia if coadministration of propranolol with rucaparib is necessary. Propranolol is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use of CYP1A2 inhibitors may increase exposure to propranolol.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ramelteon-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Ramelteon is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Rasagiline: (Major) Do not exceed a rasagiline dose of 0.5 mg once daily when coadministered with rucaparib. Coadministration may result in increased rasagiline concentrations. Rasagiline is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. When rasagiline was administered with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor, the AUC of rasagiline increased by 83%.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Coadministration of riluzole with rucaparib may increase the risk for riluzole-related adverse reactions, such as gastrointestinal symptoms and elevated hepatic enzymes. In vitro findings suggest an increase in riluzole exposure is likely; riluzole is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Roflumilast: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in roflumilast-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. A major step in roflumilast metabolism is the N-oxidation of roflumilast to roflumilast N-oxide by CYP3A4 and CYP1A2. Rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor and a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Dual inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 may increase roflumilast exposure.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with rucaparib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with rucaparib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of rucaparib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if rucaparib must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. If rucaparib is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like rucaparib can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If rucaparib is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Frequently monitor tacrolimus levels and watch for an increase in tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Tacrolimus is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4 and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Terbinafine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in terbinafine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Terbinafine is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; rucaparib is a dual weak CYP2C9 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9 and CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of terbinafine by 52% and 69%, respectively.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Monitor theophylline levels and watch for an increase in theophylline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; a theophylline dose reduction may be necessary. Theophylline is a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Minor) Monitor theophylline levels and watch for an increase in theophylline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; a theophylline dose reduction may be necessary. Theophylline is a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
tiZANidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tizanidine with rucaparib if possible due the risk of increased plasma concentrations of tizanidine. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor for an increase in tizanidine-related adverse reactions (e.g., hypotension, bradycardia, excessive drowsiness). Tizanidine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tramadol-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, seizures, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; the risk is greatest if rucaparib is added to a stable dose of tramadol. Consider decreasing the dose of tramadol if necessary. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and tramadol is metabolized by both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Coadministration with a CYP3A4 inhibitor may result in a greater amount of tramadol metabolism via CYP2D6, and greater levels of the active metabolite, M1.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tramadol-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, seizures, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary; the risk is greatest if rucaparib is added to a stable dose of tramadol. Consider decreasing the dose of tramadol if necessary. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and tramadol is metabolized by both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Coadministration with a CYP3A4 inhibitor may result in a greater amount of tramadol metabolism via CYP2D6, and greater levels of the active metabolite, M1.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with rucaparib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and rucaparib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with rucaparib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with rucaparib is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like rucaparib may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and rucaparib due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in voriconazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Voriconazole is a CYP2C19 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of voriconazole.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with rucaparib is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Rucaparib is a weak CYP3A, CYP2C9, and CYP1A2 inhibitor and warfarin is a CYP3A, CYP2C9, and CYP1A2 substrate.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    new primary malignancy
    General Information
    New primary malignancy, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), occurred in 34 of 2,141 patients (1.6%) with ovarian and prostate cancer treated with rucaparib, after a duration of therapy ranging from less than 2 months to about 72 months. These cases were typical of cancer therapy-related MDS/AML; all patients had received prior treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy and other DNA damaging agents. Fourteen cases (0.7%) occurred during treatment or during the 28-day safety follow-up. Rucaparib should not be started until any prior hematologic toxicity resolves to grade 1 or lower. If recovery to grade 1 or less has not occurred within 4 weeks, the patient should be referred to a hematologist for further investigations including a bone marrow analysis and cytogenetics. Rucaparib should be discontinued if a diagnosis of MDS or AML is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia
    General Information
    Leukopenia, lymphopenia, and neutropenia have occurred in patients treated with rucaparib. Neutropenia occurred more frequently in patients who received rucaparib maintenance therapy for platinum-sensitive BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer compared with those who received placebo (22% vs. 6%; grade 3 or 4, 8% vs. 0%) in the ARIEL3 trial; decreases from baseline in leukocytes (39%; grade 3 or 4, 3%) and lymphocytes (33%; grade 3 or 4, 7%) also occurred in patients in the same population. Decreases from baseline in neutrophils (62% to 67%; grade 3 or 4, 9% to 10%) and lymphocytes (42% to 43%; grade 3 or 4, 14% to 17%) were more common in patients with BRCA-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer treated with rucaparib in 2 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea
    General Information
    Constipation occurred in 27% to 39% (grade 3 or 4, 1% to 4%) and diarrhea in 20% to 34% (grade 3 or 4, 2% or less) of patients treated with rucaparib in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue/asthenia occurred in 74% (grade 3 or 4, 9%) of patients receiving rucaparib maintenance therapy for platinum-sensitive BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer compared with 52% (grade 3 or 4, 5%) of those who received placebo in a randomized clinical trial and was among the most common adverse reactions leading to dose reductions. Fatigue/asthenia was also reported in 61% to 62% (grade 3 or 4, 7% to 9%) of patients with BRCA-mutated, metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in 2 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysgeusia
    General Information
    Mild dysgeusia occurred more often in patients receiving maintenance therapy with rucaparib after a response to platinum-containing chemotherapy for BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer compared with placebo in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial (33% vs. 6%). The incidence of dysgeusia was lower in patients with BRCA-mutated, metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in 2 clinical trials (less than 20%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia
    General Information
    Anorexia occurred more often in patients receiving maintenance therapy with rucaparib for BRCA-mutated, recurrent, platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer compared with placebo in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial (23% vs. 14%; grade 3 or 4, 2% vs. 0%). It was also reported in 28% to 34% (grade 3 or 4, 1% to 2%) of rucaparib-treated patients with BRCA-mutated, metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in 2 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea
    General Information
    Dyspnea occurred in 17% of patients receiving rucaparib as maintenance therapy for BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer in a randomized clinical trial; it was also reported in less than 20% (grade 3 or 4, 1% or less) of patients with BRCA-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in 2 clinical trials. Cough occurred in 12% of patients with BRCA-mutated mCRPC in a pooled safety population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), photosensitivity, pruritus, psoriasis, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Rash occurred in 45% of patients receiving rucaparib maintenance therapy for platinum-sensitive BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer compared with 23% of those who received placebo in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial. Rash also occurred in 13% to 27% (grade 3 or 4, 1% to 2%) of patients with BRCA-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in 2 clinical trials; a photosensitivity reaction occurred in 12% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients in 1 of these trials. Pruritis occurred in less than 10% of patients with BRCA-mutated mCRPC treated with rucaparib in the TRITON3 trial. The term rash included blisters, blood blisters, contact dermatitis, eczema, genital rash, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), photosensitivity, pruritus, psoriasis, maculopapular rash, exfoliative dermatitis, and urticaria in 1 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      psoriasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    fever, infection, pharyngitis, sepsis
    General Information
    Naso-pharyngitis/upper respiratory tract infection occurred more often in patients receiving maintenance therapy with rucaparib for platinum-sensitive BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer compared with placebo in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial (29% vs. 20%; grade 3 or 4, 0% vs. 2%); fever was reported in 15% of patients. Urinary tract infection, pneumonia, and sepsis were each reported in less than 20% of rucaparib-treated patients with BRCA-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in the TRITON2 trial, including 1 fatal case of pneumonia. Urinary tract infection (10%; grade 3 or 4, 3%), fever (less than 10%), and febrile neutropenia (less than 10%) were also reported in patients with mCRPC treated with rucaparib in the TRITON3 trial; serious cases of pneumonia (4%) and urinary tract infection (3%) and 1 fatal case of sepsis also occurred in patients in the same trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sepsis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported in patients treated with rucaparib in clinical trials. Increased AST/ALT levels were reported in 33% of patients receiving rucaparib maintenance therapy for platinum-sensitive, BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial compared with 3% of those who received placebo (grade 3 or 4, 16% vs. 0%). Compared to baseline, increased ALT (67% to 69%; grade 3 or 4, 4% to 11%), increased AST (59% or less; grade 3 or 4, 2% or less), and alkaline phosphatase (42% or less; grade 3 or 4, 2% or less) occurred in patients treated with rucaparib in 3 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    An increase in cholesterol level (hypercholesterolemia) from baseline occurred in 39% (grade 3 or 4, 3%) of patients receiving maintenance therapy with rucaparib after a response to platinum-containing chemotherapy for BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial compared with 20% of those who received placebo. An increase in triglycerides from baseline (e.g., hypertriglyceridemia) was reported in 42% of rucaparib-treated patients with BRCA-mutated prostate cancer in a noncomparative trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    renal failure
    General Information
    An increase from baseline in serum creatinine occurred in 96% of patients receiving maintenance therapy with rucaparib after a response to platinum-containing chemotherapy for BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial compared with 89% of those who received placebo; renal failure occurred in rare cases. Increases from baseline in serum creatinine were less common (43% to 56%; grade 3 or 4, 1% to 2%) in patients with BRCA-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) treated with rucaparib in 2 clinical trials; renal failure (less than 20%) and serious cases of acute kidney injury (3%) were also reported in patients with mCRPC in the same trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, flushing, wheezing
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions (anaphylactoid reactions) including flushing, asthma, choking sensation, eyelid edema, facial edema, and wheezing, were reported in less than 20% of rucaparib-treated patients with BRCA-mutated, metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in 1 noncomparative clinical trial. Hypersensitivity (not specified) was also reported in less than 10% of patients with mCRPC treated with rucaparib in the TRITON3 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, headache
    General Information
    Headache (12% to 22%) and dizziness (less than 20%) have occurred in patients treated with rucaparib in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea was reported in 79% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) of patients receiving rucaparib as maintenance therapy for BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer in a randomized clinical trial; vomiting occurred in 37% (grade 3 or 4, 4%) of these patients. The incidence of nausea (51% to 52%; grade 3 or 4, 2% to 3%) and vomiting (22% to 25%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) was slightly lower in rucaparib-treated patients with BRCA-mutated, metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in 2 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain
    General Information
    Abdominal pain/distention occurred in 48% of patients receiving maintenance therapy with rucaparib after a response to platinum-containing chemotherapy for BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer compared with 49% of those who received placebo in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 3% vs. 2%). Abdominal pain was more common in patients with BRCA-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer treated with rucaparib compared with those treated with an androgen receptor pathway blocker or docetaxel in the TRITON3 trial (17% vs. 10%; grade 3 or 4, 1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    stomatitis
    General Information
    Stomatitis occurred more often in patients receiving maintenance therapy with rucaparib after a response to platinum-containing chemotherapy for BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer compared with placebo in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial (28% vs. 12%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% vs. 0%). Stomatitis was reported in less than 20% of rucaparib-treated patients with BRCA-mutated, metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in a noncomparative trial and in less than 10% of patients with mCRPC treated with rucaparib in the TRITON3 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dyspepsia
    General Information
    Dyspepsia was reported in 12% of patients receiving maintenance therapy with rucaparib after a response to platinum-containing chemotherapy for BRCA-mutated, recurrent ovarian cancer in a randomized, double-blind clinical trial. It was also reported in less than 20% of patients with BRCA-mutated, metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) treated with rucaparib in a noncomparative trial and in less than 10% of patients with mCRPC in the TRITON3 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia
    General Information
    Anemia occurred in 41% of patients who received rucaparib maintenance therapy for platinum-sensitive, BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer compared with 6% of those who received placebo (grade 3 or 4, 26% vs. 0%) in the ARIEL3 trial. Decreases from baseline in hemoglobin also occurred in 59% to 61% (grade 3 or 4, 18% to 25%) of patients treated with rucaparib in 3 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
    Headline
    thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Thrombocytopenia occurred in 35% of patients who received rucaparib maintenance therapy for platinum-sensitive, BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer compared with 3% of those who received placebo (grade 3 or 4, 6% vs. 0%) in the ARIEL3 trial. Decreases from baseline in platelets were also reported in 34% to 47% (grade 3 or 4, 2% to 10%) of patients treated with rucaparib in 3 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bleeding
    General Information
    Bleeding was reported in less than 20% of rucaparib-treated patients with BRCA-mutated, metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in 2 clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercalcemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, and hypercalcemia have occurred in patients treated with rucaparib. Decreases from baseline in phosphate (64% to 68%; grade 3 or 4, 8% to 15%) and sodium (35% to 38%; grade 3 or 4, 3% to 5%) occurred in rucaparib-treated patients with BRCA-mutated metastatic prostate cancer in 2 clinical trials; increases from baseline in calcium (29%; grade 3 or 4, 3%) also occurred in patients in 1 of these trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypercalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism
    General Information
    Venous thromboembolism (VTE) and ischemic cardiovascular events were each reported in less than 20% of patients with BRCA-mutated, metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) treated with rucaparib in a nonrandomized trial; it occurred in less than 10% of patients with BRCA-mutated mCRPC treated with rucaparib in the TRITON3 trial. Serious cases of pulmonary embolism were reported in 2% of patients in the TRITON3 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thromboembolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression, insomnia
    General Information
    Insomnia (19%) and depression (11%) were reported in patients who received rucaparib maintenance therapy for platinum-sensitive, BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Peripheral edema was reported in 12% of patients who received rucaparib maintenance therapy for platinum-sensitive, BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer in a randomized clinical trial. Edema (not specified) occurred in 18% of patients with BRCA-mutated mCRPC treated with rucaparib in the TRITON3 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain occurred in 53% (grade 3 or 4, 7%) of patients with BRCA-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in the TRITON3 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 12% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients with BRCA-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer compared with 26% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients treated with an androgen receptor pathway inhibitor or docetaxel in the TRITON3 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    weight loss
    General Information
    Weight loss occurred in 16% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients with BRCA-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer treated with rucaparib in the TRITON3 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, heart failure, hypertension, myocardial infarction
    General Information
    Hypertension (less than 10%), arrhythmia/arrhythmia exacerbation (less than 10%), and serious cases of myocardial infarction (2%) occurred in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer treated with rucaparib in the TRITON3 trial; 1 fatal case of heart failure and myocardial infarction also occurred in these patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
    General Information
    A fatal case of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) occurred in a patient with BRCA-mutated, metastatic prostate cancer treated with rucaparib in the nonrandomized TRITON2 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Increases from baseline in glucose (hyperglycemia) occurred in 45% (grade 3 or 4, 6%) of patients with BRCA-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer treated with rucaparib in the TRITON3 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Rucaparib is an oral poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor. It is indicated for the maintenance treatment of BRCA-mutated recurrent ovarian cancer after a response to platinum-based chemotherapy and for the treatment of BRCA-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in patients previously treated with androgen receptor-directed therapy. PARP enzymes are involved in normal cellular homeostasis, including DNA transcription, cell cycle regulation, and DNA repair; increased cytotoxicity and anti-tumor activity has been noted in cell lines and mouse tumor models with deficiencies in BRCA. The most common grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions occurring in more than 10% of patients included anemia, asthenia/fatigue, increased ALT, and neutropenia.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Rucaparib inhibits poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) enzymes, including PARP1, PARP2, and PARP3. PARP enzymes are involved in normal cellular homeostasis, such as DNA transcription, cell cycle regulation, and DNA repair. In vitro, inhibition of PARP enzyme activity by rucaparib results in increased PARP-DNA complexes, causing DNA damage, apoptosis, and cell death. Increased cytotoxicity has been observed with rucaparib exposure in tumor cell lines with deficiencies in BRCA 1/2 and other DNA repair genes. In mouse xenograft models of human cancer with or without BRCA deficiencies, rucaparib has been shown to decrease tumor growth.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The exposure-response relationship and time course of pharmacodynamic response for the safety and effectiveness of rucaparib has not been fully characterized. The mean steady-state Cmax of rucaparib at the approved recommended dosing was 1,940 ng/mL (CV, 54%), reached at a Tmax of 1.9 hours (range, 0 to 5.98 hours). The AUC was 16,900 ng x hour/mL (CV, 54%), and the mean AUC accumulation ratio was 3.5-fold to 6.2-fold. Mean absolute bioavailability is 36% (range, 30% to 45%). The pharmacokinetics (AUC and Cmax) of rucaparib were linear from a dose of 240 mg to 840 mg twice daily.
A high-fat meal (approximately 800 to 1,000 calories; 250 calories from carbohydrates, 500 to 600 calories from fat, and 150 calories from protein) increased the Cmax by 20% and the AUC by 38%, while the Tmax was delayed by 2.5 hours as compared to fasting conditions.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin less than the upper limit of normal [ULN] and AST greater than ULN; or total bilirubin 1.1 to 1.5 times ULN and any AST) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of rucaparib. Moderate hepatic impairment (total bilirubin 1.6 to 3 times ULN and any AST) increased the AUC of rucaparib by 45% but had no effect on Cmax compared to patients with normal hepatic function. The effect of severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN and any AST) has not been studied.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/min or higher) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of rucaparib. The effect of severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/min) has not been studied.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The safety and efficacy of rucaparib has not been established in pediatric patients.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (20 to 86 years) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of rucaparib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of rucaparib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (White, Black, and Asian) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of rucaparib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (41 to 171 kg) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of rucaparib.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Pharmacogenomics
CYP2D6 or CYP1A2 genotype polymorphisms did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of rucaparib.
  Text
  Rucaparib is administered orally. In vitro, rucaparib is 70% protein bound in human plasma. It is preferentially distributed to red blood cells with a blood-to-plasma concentration ratio of 1.8. The mean apparent volume of distribution is 2,300 liters (CV, 21%). The mean terminal half-life of rucaparib is 26 hours (CV, 39%). The mean apparent clearance at steady-state is 44.2 L/hour (CV, 45%). After administration of a single radiolabeled dose, unchanged rucaparib accounted for 64% of the radioactivity in plasma. Rucaparib accounted for 45% of radioactivity in the urine and 95% of radioactivity in the feces.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes (CYP450) or drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A4
In vitro, rucaparib is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2 and CYP3A4. Additionally, N-demethylation, N-methylation, and glucuronidation are involved in rucaparib metabolism. In vitro, rucaparib is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP. In clinical studies, rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor as well as a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A4, and P-gp. In vitro, rucaparib inhibited CYP2C8, CYP2D6, UGT1A1, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT3, MATE1, MATE2K, OCT1, OCT2, and MRP4; it induced CYP1A2.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Moderate/High
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Take tablets with or without food. Administration with a high-fat meal increases the Cmax and AUC of rucaparib (by 20% and 38%, respectively), and delays clearance by 2.5 hours.
If a dose is missed, the patient should take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time; do not replace doses if vomiting occurs.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    600 mg PO twice daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    600 mg PO twice daily.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment:
Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (total bilirubin less than or equal to 3 times the upper limit of normal [ULN] and AST greater than ULN): No dosage adjustment necessary.
Severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN and any AST): Rucaparib has not been studied in this population.
  Renal Impairment
  Baseline Renal Impairment:
Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min): No dosage adjustment necessary.
Severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) or hemodialysis: Rucaparib has not been studied in this population.
