=== Almotriptan — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2536)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Almotriptan is a serotonin-receptor 1B and 1D agonist (triptan) indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 25 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bowel ischemia, colitis, gastroesophageal reflux, hypersalivation, polydipsia, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, diaphoresis, erythema, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, dyspnea, epistaxis, hyperventilation, laryngitis, laryngospasm, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, sneezing, arthralgia, back pain, myalgia, myasthenia, myopathy, peripheral vasoconstriction, angina, chest pain (unspecified)

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use caution when administering almotriptan to individuals with known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides.

ALMOTRIPTAN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Axert

Indication Specific Dosing

For the acute treatment of migraine attacks in patients with a history of migraine with or without aura

For the acute treatment of migraine headache pain in pediatric patients with a history of migraine attacks with or without aura usually lasting 4 hours or more (when untreated)
Oral dosage
Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


6.25 or 12.5 mg PO once. May repeat dose after 2 hours if the headache returns. Max: 25 mg/day. The efficacy on migraine-associated symptoms (i.e., nausea, photophobia, and phonophobia) and the safety of treating more than 4 headaches in a 30-day period have not been established. Guidelines recommend almotriptan for acute treatment of migraine in adolescents; however, those receiving almotriptan are possibly no more likely that those receiving placebo to be headache-free at 2 hours.


For the acute treatment of migraine attacks in adults with a history of migraine with or without aura
Oral dosage
Adults


6.25 or 12.5 mg PO once, with 12.5 mg tending to be a more effective dose. May repeat dose after 2 hours if the headache returns. Max: 25 mg/day. Controlled trials have not adequately established the effectiveness of a second dose if the initial dose is ineffective. Single doses more than 12.5 mg do not improve efficacy. The safety of treating more than 4 headaches in a 30-day period has not been established. Guidelines classify almotriptan as having established efficacy for the treatment of acute migraine.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use caution when administering almotriptan to individuals with known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides. The chemical structure of almotriptan contains a sulfonyl group, which is structurally different from a sulfonamide. Cross-sensitivity to almotriptan in individuals allergic to sulfonamides has not been systematically evaluated.

basilar/hemiplegic migraine


Almotriptan is contraindicated in basilar/hemiplegic migraine. Before treating headaches in individuals not previously diagnosed with migraine, and in individuals with migraine who present with atypical symptoms, exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions.


hepatic failure


Use almotriptan with caution in individuals with diseases that may alter the absorption, metabolism, or excretion of drugs, such as those with hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. Almotriptan dosage adjustment is recommended in individuals with hepatic impairment.


cardiovascular disease, coronary artery disease, coronary artery vasospasm, diabetes mellitus, family history of ischemic heart disease, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, males, obesity, peripheral vascular disease, postmenopausal females, stroke, tobacco smoking


Almotriptan is contraindicated in individuals with or who have symptoms or findings consistent with ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (i.e., angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, documented silent ischemia), coronary artery vasospasm (including Prinzmetal angina), uncontrolled hypertension, peripheral vascular disease (including ischemic bowel disease), other significant cardiovascular disease, or cerebrovascular syndromes (including stroke or transient ischemic attack). Do not administer almotriptan to individuals in whom unrecognized CAD is predicted by the presence of risk factors (e.g., diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, tobacco smoking, obesity, strong family history of ischemic heart disease, postmenopausal females, males older than 40 years) unless a cardiovascular (CV) evaluation provides satisfactory clinical evidence that the individual is reasonably free of coronary artery and ischemic myocardial disease or other significant CV disease. For individuals with risk factors who have a negative CV evaluation, consider administering the first dose of almotriptan in a medically-supervised setting and obtaining an ECG immediately after administration. Consider periodic CV evaluation in intermittent long-term users of almotriptan who have CV risk factors. Before treating headaches in individuals not previously diagnosed with migraine, and in individuals with migraine who present with atypical symptoms, exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions; individuals with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events (e.g., stroke, hemorrhage, transient ischemic attack).


renal failure, renal impairment


Use almotriptan with caution in individuals with diseases that may alter the absorption, metabolism, or excretion of drugs, such as those with renal impairment. Almotriptan dosage adjustment is required in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure.


geriatric


Use caution with almotriptan dose selection for a geriatric adult, usually starting at the low dose, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Do not administer almotriptan to individuals in whom unrecognized CAD is predicted by the presence of risk factors such as surgical or physiological menopause or males older than 40 years as well as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, tobacco smoking, obesity, strong family history of CAD, unless a cardiovascular (CV) evaluation provides satisfactory clinical evidence that the individual is reasonably free of coronary artery and ischemic myocardial disease or other significant CV disease. For individuals with risk factors who have a negative CV evaluation, consider administering the first dose of almotriptan in a medically-supervised setting and obtaining an ECG immediately after administration. Consider periodic CV evaluation in intermittent long-term users of almotriptan who have CV risk factors.


pregnancy


Use almotriptan during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies with almotriptan during human pregnancy. In animal studies, almotriptan produced developmental toxicity (increased embryolethality, fetal skeletal variations including decreased ossification, and decreased offspring body weight) at doses greater than those used clinically. During administration to rats throughout gestation and lactation, gestation length was increased and litter size and offspring body weight were decreased at the highest dose. The decrease in pup weight persisted throughout lactation. The effects of almotriptan during labor and delivery are unknown.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration if they experience dizziness, drowsiness, or visual disturbances after taking almotriptan.


breast-feeding


Use caution when administering almotriptan during breast-feeding. It is not known if almotriptan is distributed into human breast milk. In rats, concentrations of almotriptan were up to 7 times higher in milk compared to plasma. Sumatriptan has been considered compatible with breast-feeding and may be considered as an alternative to almotriptan during lactation.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Use almotriptan during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies with almotriptan during human pregnancy. In animal studies, almotriptan produced developmental toxicity (increased embryolethality, fetal skeletal variations including decreased ossification, and decreased offspring body weight) at doses greater than those used clinically. During administration to rats throughout gestation and lactation, gestation length was increased and litter size and offspring body weight were decreased at the highest dose. The decrease in pup weight persisted throughout lactation. The effects of almotriptan during labor and delivery are unknown.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dihydrocodeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with adagrasib is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and adagrasib should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering alfentanil with almotriptan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and clarithromycin should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if almotriptan and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in almotriptan-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of almotriptan. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with atazanavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and atazanavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with atazanavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and atazanavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%. (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and cobicistat should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering benzhydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Bromocriptine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot derivatives, such as bromocriptine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Some ergot derivatives and serotonin-receptor antagonists have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering buprenorphine with serotonergic-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering buprenorphine with serotonergic-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant buspirone and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Cabergoline: (Major) When possible, avoid concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists (triptans) within 24 hours of cabergoline administration to minimize the risk for serious coronary ischemia. Ergot alkaloids have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions which may be additive with the effects of triptans. The risk for vasospastic adverse reactions may be less with cabergoline, a semisynthetic ergot alkaloid derivative, than with other ergot alkaloids as cabergoline is a relatively selective dopamine agonist. In select patients, the combination of cabergoline and "triptans" has been utilized in the management of some headache types, but more data are needed regarding safety and efficacy.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with ceritinib is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and ceritinib should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with chloramphenicol is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and chloramphenicol should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering almotriptan with citalopram. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue citalopram and almotriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and clarithromycin should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and cobicistat should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of cocaine with other drugs that have CNS serotonergic properties, such as serotonin-receptor agonists, could potentiate serotonin neurotransmission, and result in serotonergic side effects or rarely, serotonin syndrome. The actions of cocaine are presumed to include inhibition of presynaptic reuptake of serotonin. In most medical use cases, cocaine would be administered topically, and this interaction would not be of concern, as serotonin-agonists for migraine are used mostly "as needed". Illicit use of cocaine is of potential concern for interactions.
Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Major) Dalfopristin; quinupristin may increase the systemic exposure of almotriptan. If coadministered, the recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Avoid coadministration in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and quinupristin is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of almotriptan and ketoconazole, another potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in an approximately 60% increase in almotriptan exposure.
Darunavir: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with darunavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and darunavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and cobicistat should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%. (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with darunavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and darunavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and cobicistat should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%. (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with darunavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and darunavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering desvenlafaxine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Droxidopa: (Major) Coadministration of droxidopa with other agents that increase blood pressure, such as serotonin-receptor agonists, would be expected to increase the risk for supine hypertension. Monitor supine blood pressure. Reduce or discontinue droxidopa if supine hypertension persists. If supine hypertension is not well-managed, droxidopa may increase the risk of cardiovascular events.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant duloxetine and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering almotriptan with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated almotriptan plasma concentrations. Almotriptan is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Eletriptan: (Contraindicated) Almotriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with eletriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and cobicistat should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and cobicistat should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and ensitrelvir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Ergoloid Mesylates: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as ergoloid mesylates, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering almotriptan with escitalopram. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue escitalopram and almotriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and serotonin receptor agonists with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) If concomitant use of fentanyl and almotriptan is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering almotriptan with fluoxetine. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue fluoxetine and almotriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering almotriptan with fluvoxamine. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue fluvoxamine and almotriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with fosamprenavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and fosamprenavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Frovatriptan: (Contraindicated) Almotriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with frovatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydromorphone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with idelalisib is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and idelalisib should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with almotriptan may result in increased serum concentrations of almotriptan. Almotriptan is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering almotriptan with isocarboxazid. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue almotriptan and isocarboxazid and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with itraconazole is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and itraconazole should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and ketoconazole should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and clarithromycin should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Letermovir: (Moderate) No dosage adjustment is required in patients receiving letermovir with almotriptan who are not also receiving cyclosporine. The recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg (not to exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period) in patients receiving letermovir with cyclosporine. Avoid almotriptan in combination with letermovir and cyclosporine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. When cyclosporine is added to letermovir the magnitude of drug interactions may be increased. Almotriptan is a substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent use with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the maximum plasma concentration and exposure of almotriptan by 24% and 20%, respectively. Neither of these changes was considered clinically significant and did not require dose adjustment. However, concurrent administration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and ketoconazole should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levorphanol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Linezolid: (Major) Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a reversible, non-selective inhibitor of MAO and should not be administered with serotonin-receptor agonists. The monoamine oxidase type A enzyme metabolizes serotonin. Non-selective MAO inhibitors increase the plasma concentrations of these drugs and some of their active metabolites, thus increasing levels of serotonin. This interaction could lead to serotonin syndrome. The manufacturers of serotonin agonists contraindicate the administration of their drugs to patients receiving non-selective MAO inhibitors like linezolid or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of a MAO inhibitor.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation or dosage increase, during concomitant lisdexamfetamine and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk of serotonin syndrome.
Lithium: (Major) If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome and inform patients of the increased risk. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented. There is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of drugs with central serotonergic properties such as lithium and serotonin-receptor agonists. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include autonomic instability (e.g., labile blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, dizziness, hyperthermia), mental status changes (e.g., delirium, confusion, coma), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), gastrointestinal effects (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), seizures, and in rare cases, death.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and lonafarnib should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and ritonavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of almotriptan by decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, monitor the patient for appropriate clinical effects. Almotriptan is partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of almotriptan by decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, monitor the patient for appropriate clinical effects. Almotriptan is partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) Almotriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with rizatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering meperidine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Methadone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering methadone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Methylene Blue: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Methylergonovine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with chronic mifepristone therapy is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and mifepristone should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering milnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Mirtazapine: (Major) The coadministration of serotonergic antidepressants with serotonin-agonists has sometimes resulted in serotonin syndrome. Careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, and hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination) and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea). Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome, which includes hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, autonomic instability with possible rapid fluctuation of vital signs, and mental status changes. Discontinue the serotonergic agents immediately if serotonin syndrome reactions occur and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and almotriptan are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of almotriptan and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate (approximately 12%); coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of almotriptan.
Morphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering morphine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering nalbuphine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Naratriptan: (Contraindicated) Almotriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with naratriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with nefazodone is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and nefazodone should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with nelfinavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and nelfinavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Consider withholding almotriptan, if clinically appropriate, during receipt of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir. If this is not feasible, consider using an alternative COVID-19 therapy or reducing the almotriptan dose. If coadministered, the recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Avoid coadministration in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Coadministration may increase almotriptan exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Almotriptan is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and ritonavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering almotriptan with fluoxetine. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue fluoxetine and almotriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and serotonin-receptor agonists is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxymorphone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering almotriptan with paroxetine. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue paroxetine and almotriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and almotriptan, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of almotriptan. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering almotriptan with phenelzine. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue almotriptan and phenelzine and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with posaconazole is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and posaconazole should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Use together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since rasagiline selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with almotriptan would be expected with normal prescription use. However, there is a decline in MAO-B selectivity with increasing rasagiline doses. Monitor for potential serotonin-related side effects. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with relacorilant is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and relacorilant should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering remifentanil with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and ribociclib should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and ribociclib should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and ritonavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) Almotriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with rizatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with saquinavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and saquinavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant almotriptan and selegiline use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering almotriptan with sertraline. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue sertraline and almotriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Although unlikely to occur during monotherapy with serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans"), coadministration with serotonergic agents like St. John's Wort may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Inform the patient of the increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome.
Streptogramins: (Major) Dalfopristin; quinupristin may increase the systemic exposure of almotriptan. If coadministered, the recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Avoid coadministration in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and quinupristin is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of almotriptan and ketoconazole, another potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in an approximately 60% increase in almotriptan exposure.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering sufentanil with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
SUMAtriptan: (Contraindicated) Almotriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with sumatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Contraindicated) Almotriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with sumatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tapentadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with tipranavir is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and tipranavir should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
traMADol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Minor) Verapamil, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, increases AUC and peak plasma concentrations of almotriptan by 20% and 24%, respectively; however, per the manufacturer, the changes are not clinically significant and no dosage adjustment of almotriptan is needed. Some patients might rarely have an increase in common side effects of almotriptan, such as dizziness, nausea or drowsiness.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, tranylcypromine is contraindicated for use with almotriptan. Tranylcypromine should not be used within 4 to 5 half-lives of discontinuing treatment with almotriptan.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant trazodone and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Tryptophan, 5-Hydroxytryptophan: (Contraindicated) Combining medications that potentiate serotonin neurotransmission, such as serotonin-receptor agonists and tryptophan, could result in serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome, while uncommon, can be serious and consists of symptoms such as mental status changes, diaphoresis, tremor, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, and fever.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with tucatinib is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and tucatinib should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant venlafaxine and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Verapamil: (Minor) Verapamil, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, increases AUC and peak plasma concentrations of almotriptan by 20% and 24%, respectively; however, per the manufacturer, the changes are not clinically significant and no dosage adjustment of almotriptan is needed. Some patients might rarely have an increase in common side effects of almotriptan, such as dizziness, nausea or drowsiness.
Vilazodone: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vilazodone with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) with serotonin-receptor agonists. Of the 27 cases reviewed by the FDA, 2 were considered life-threatening and 13 required hospitalization. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident. Eight of 27 cases involved a recent dose increase or addition of another serotonergic drug to the regimen, with a median onset of 1 day (range: 10 minutes to 6 days). It is thought that the interaction between SNRIs or SSRIs and serotonin-receptor agonists is the result of increased serotonergic activity by each of the drug classes. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. At least 6 patients taking an SSRI antidepressant are known to have received sumatriptan for migraine where no apparent adverse effects were seen. In another case report, the addition of fluoxetine lead to loss of migraine control with sumatriptan. Patients receiving vilazodone and a serotonin-receptor agonist should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and during dosage increases. Vilazodone and the serotonin-receptor agonist should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and clarithromycin should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with voriconazole is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and voriconazole should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.
ZOLMitriptan: (Contraindicated) Almotriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with zolmitriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.


Adverse Reaction
abdominal pain, bowel ischemia, colitis, diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, glossitis, hypersalivation, nausea, polydipsia, vomiting, xerostomia


The most common gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events associated with almotriptan therapy (6.25 to 12.5 mg) in adults and occurring at an incidence greater than with placebo included nausea (1% to 2%) and dry mouth (xerostomia) (1%). In a placebo-controlled trial of almotriptan in pediatric individuals 12 to 17 years of age, the following GI effects were reported in patients receiving almotriptan 6.25 mg, almotriptan 12.5 mg, or placebo, respectively: nausea (1%, 3%, 0%) and vomiting (2%, 0%, less than 1%). During other clinical trial evaluations in adults or adolescents, the following adverse GI effects were reported in 0.1% to 1% of treated subjects: abdominal pain or cramps, diarrhea, vomiting, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, and polydipsia. Rarely reported GI effects (less than 0.1%) included colitis, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, and hypersalivation. Abdominal pain or discomfort, upper abdominal pain, colitis, decreased perception of sensory stimuli in the mouth, and swollen tongue (glossitis) have been reported during postmarketing use of almotriptan. Serotonin receptor agonists may cause vasospastic reactions including GI vascular ischemia. Cramping, bowel ischemia, and ischemic colitis have been reported following administration of other serotonin receptor agonists. Treated individuals who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of ischemic bowel syndrome (e.g., cramping, abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea) should be further evaluated.


anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria, fatigue, headache, hyperreflexia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, medication overuse headache, nightmares, nystagmus, paresthesias, restlessness, seizures, serotonin syndrome, tremor, vertigo, withdrawal


The most common centrally-mediated adverse event after almotriptan therapy (6.25 to 12.5 mg) in adult clinical trials was paresthesias (1%). Headache and drowsiness were also among the most frequently reported CNS effects. In a placebo-controlled trial of almotriptan in children and adolescents 12 to 17 years, the following CNS adverse events were reported in those receiving almotriptan 6.25 mg, almotriptan 12.5 mg, or placebo, respectively: dizziness (4%, 3%, 2%), drowsiness (less than 1%, 5%, 2%), headache (1%, 2%, 1%), and paresthesias (less than 1%, 1%, less than 1%). During other clinical trial evaluations in adults or adolescents, the following CNS adverse effects were reported in at least 1% of treated subjects: dizziness, headache, and somnolence. Adverse CNS effects reported by 0.1% to 1% included tremor, vertigo, anxiety, hypoesthesia, restlessness, CNS stimulation, asthenia, fatigue, and shakiness. Rarely reported effects (less than 0.1%) included change in dreams, impaired concentration, abnormal coordination, depression, euphoria, hyperreflexia, hypertonia, nervousness, neuropathy, nightmares, nystagmus, and insomnia. Confusion, hemiplegia, vertigo, seizures, hypoesthesia, and restlessness have been reported during postmarketing use of almotriptan. Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including triptans, may lead to medication overuse headache; individuals may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise of the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of almotriptan or any combination of therapy for at least 10 days/month) and encourage patients to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use. Pediatric guidelines recommend no more than 9 days/month of triptans, 14 days/month of over-the-counter medication, and no more than 9 days/month of any combination of therapy to avoid medication overuse headache. Serotonin syndrome may rarely occur with serotonin receptor agonists, such as almotriptan, particularly during concurrent use of serotonergic agents such as SSRIs or SNRIs. Symptoms of serotonin syndrome may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, or coma), fast heart beat, changes in blood pressure, high body temperature or sweating, tight muscles, trouble walking, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.


anaphylactic shock, angioedema, diaphoresis, erythema, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash


Rash, pruritus, and diaphoresis were reported in 0.1% to 1% of adults or adolescents in controlled trials of almotriptan. Dermatitis, erythema, and photosensitivity reaction were reported in less than 0.1% of adults or adolescents. Anaphylactic shock, angioedema, cold sweat, erythema, and hyperhidrosis have been reported during postmarketing use of almotriptan.


dyspnea, epistaxis, hyperventilation, laryngitis, laryngospasm, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, sneezing


Respiratory effects including pharyngitis, rhinitis, dyspnea, laryngospasm, sinusitis, and bronchitis were reported in 0.1% to 1% of almotriptan-treated adults or adolescents in controlled trials. Hyperventilation, laryngitis, sneezing, and epistaxis were reported in less than 0.1% of treated adults or adolescents.


arthralgia, back pain, myalgia, myasthenia, myopathy, peripheral vasoconstriction


Adverse musculoskeletal effects or pain symptoms including myalgia, back pain, neck pain, and rigid neck were reported in 0.1% to 1% of almotriptan-treated adults or adolescents in controlled trials. Arthralgia, arthritis, myopathy, and muscle weakness (myasthenia) were reported in less than 0.1% of treated adults or adolescents. Arthralgia, myalgia, peripheral coldness, and extremity pain have been reported during postmarketing use of almotriptan. Serotonin receptor agonists (triptans) may cause peripheral vasospastic reactions. Patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of peripheral vasoconstriction or decreased arterial flow, such as peripheral coldness or Raynaud's syndrome, should be further evaluated.


hypertension, syncope


Significant elevations in systemic blood pressure have rarely been reported during treatment with almotriptan in people with and without a history of hypertension. These increases in blood pressure have been associated with significant clinical events in rare instances. Hypertension or syncope rarely occurred (less than 0.1%) during clinical trials. However, generally, a single dose of 12.5 mg did not significantly alter blood pressure compared to placebo. Doses of 25 and 50 mg resulted in small, dose-related increases in blood pressure (mean increases of 2.8 to 4.2 mmHg and 3.8 to 6.1 mmHg, respectively, in systolic and diastolic blood pressure measured 0 to 4 hours after dosing) in one study. One case of an ECG abnormality (negative T-waves on the left leads) was observed in an individual 2 days after a single almotriptan dose of 6.25 mg. A subsequent ECG 2 days later was normal. The individual was diagnosed as having had myocardial ischemia.


angina, chest pain (unspecified), chest pressure syndrome, coronary vasospasm, flushing, myocardial infarction, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia


Serotonin receptor agonists (triptans), such as almotriptan, may cause coronary vasospasm or ischemia. During clinical trial evaluation, adverse cardiovascular effects reported in 0.1% to 1% of almotriptan-treated adults or adolescents included vasodilation (or flushing), palpitations, chest pain (unspecified), and sinus tachycardia. Acute myocardial infarction, coronary vasospasm, angina pectoris, and sinus tachycardia have been reported during postmarketing use of almotriptan. Additional serious cardiac events (some fatal events) that have been reported after therapy with other triptans include intermediate coronary syndrome, transient myocardial ischemia, ventricular tachycardia, and ventricular fibrillation. These events are extremely rare and have been primarily reported in people with risk factors predictive of coronary artery disease. However, adverse cardiovascular events have also occurred in those with no cardiac history and with a documented absence of coronary artery disease. Chest pain and chest pressure syndrome, which includes sensations of chest pain, tightness and or/heaviness, jaw pain and tightness, and regional pain and pressure have been reported after administration of triptans, including almotriptan.


intracranial bleeding, stroke


Treatment with some serotonin receptor agonists (triptans) has been associated with cerebral vasospasm resulting in intracranial bleeding, subarachnoid hemorrhage, stroke, other cerebrovascular events, and fatalities. In several cases, it appears that the cerebrovascular incident was the primary event and the triptan was given with the incorrect assumption that these symptoms were due to a migraine when they were not.


hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia


Laboratory abnormalities reported in 0.1% to 1% of almotriptan-treated adults or adolescents in controlled trials included hyperglycemia and increased serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK). Increased gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) and hypercholesterolemia were reported in less than 0.1% of treated adults or adolescents.


dysmenorrhea, mastalgia


Dysmenorrhea was reported in 0.1% to 1% of almostriptan-treated adults or adolescents in controlled trials. Breast pain (mastalgia) has been reported during postmarketing use of almotriptan.


blepharospasm, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal opacification, diplopia, dysgeusia, hyperacusis, ocular irritation, ocular pain, otalgia, parosmia, scotomata, tinnitus, visual impairment, xerophthalmia


During clinical trial evaluation, ear pain (otalgia) and tinnitus were reported in 0.1% to 1% of almostriptan-treated adults or adolescents. Adverse effects related to special senses that were reported in less than 0.1% of treated adults or adolescents included diplopia, xerophthalmia, ocular pain, otitis media, parosmia, scotomata, conjunctivitis, ocular irritation, hyperacusis, and taste alteration (dysgeusia). Blepharospasm, visual impairment, and blurred vision have been reported during postmarketing use of almotriptan. Very rare reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of serotonin receptor agonists (triptans). Visual disorders may also be part of a migraine attack. Results from animal studies suggest that almotriptan and/or its metabolites may bind to melanin in the eye. Because almotriptan could accumulate in melanin-rich tissues over time, there is the possibility that it could cause toxicity in these tissues with extended use. However, adverse retinal effects were not observed during a 52-week toxicity study in animals. Slight corneal opacification was noted in 3 of 14 almotriptan-treated animals after 51 weeks, but not after 25 weeks of treatment. The opacity reversed after a 4-week drug-free period in the affected animal treated with the highest almotriptan dose. Systematic monitoring of ophthalmologic function has not been conducted in almotriptan clinical trials, and there are no specific recommendations for ophthalmologic monitoring.


chills, fever, malaise


During clinical trials, chills were reported in 0.1% to 1% and fever was reported rarely (less than 0.1%) by almotriptan-treated adults and adolescents. Malaise has been reported during postmarketing use of almotriptan.


Description

Almotriptan is a serotonin-receptor 1B and 1D agonist (triptan) indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura. Almotriptan is not indicated for long-term migraine prophylaxis or for the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine, nor cluster headaches. Serious cardiac adverse effects may occur during almotriptan administration and are more likely to occur in people with risk factors for coronary artery disease, although some events have occurred in people without known cardiac risk factors. Almotriptan was FDA-approved in 2001.

Mechanism Of Action

Almotriptan stimulates presynaptic 5-HT1D receptors, an action that inhibits both dural vasodilation and inflammation. It directly inhibits trigeminal nuclei cell nociceptive neurotransmission via 5-HT1B/D receptor agonism within the trigeminocervical complex of the brainstem and upper spinal cord. Additionally, vascular 5-HT1B receptor agonism results in vasoconstriction of painfully dilated intracranial extracerebral vessels. Almotriptan has no pharmacologic activity at dopaminergic, muscarinic, or sympathetic receptors and does not possess intrinsic analgesic properties.

Pharmacokinetics

Almotriptan is administered orally. Almotriptan is minimally protein bound (about 35%) with a mean Vd of approximately 180 to 200 L. One minor and two major pathways contribute to the metabolism of almotriptan. Monoamine oxidase (MAO)-mediated oxidative deamination (about 27% of the dose) and cytochrome P450-mediated oxidation (about 12% of the dose) are the major routes of metabolism, while flavin monooxygenase is the minor route. MAO-A is responsible for the formation of the indoleacetic acid metabolite, whereas CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 catalyze the hydroxylation of the pyrrolidine ring to an intermediate that is further oxidized by aldehyde dehydrogenase to the gamma-amino-butyric acid derivative; both metabolites are inactive. Renal clearance exceeds the glomerular filtration rate by 3-fold, indicating an active process. The mean elimination half-life of almotriptan is 3 to 4 hours. Almotriptan is primarily eliminated by the kidney (about 75%), with approximately 40% of the dose excreted unchanged in the urine. Approximately 13% of the administered dose is excreted in the feces.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2D6
Oxidation via CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 is a major route of almotriptan metabolism (about 12% of the dose). Concomitant use of almotriptan and potent CYP3A4 inhibitors is expected to increase almotriptan exposure. Administration of almotriptan with a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 for 8 days had no effect on almotriptan clearance, but maximal concentrations of almotriptan were increased 18%; this difference was not clinically significant.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Almotriptan is well absorbed and has a bioavailability of 70%. Peak plasma levels of almotriptan occur 1 to 3 hours after oral administration; food does not affect its pharmacokinetics.

Hepatic Impairment

The pharmacokinetics of almotriptan have not been assessed in patients with hepatic impairment; however, the maximum expected decrease in drug clearance due to hepatic impairment is 60%, based on the known clearance mechanisms of almotriptan.

Renal Impairment

When compared to healthy subjects, almotriptan clearance is approximately 65% lower in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl 10 to 30 mL/minute) and approximately 40% lower in those with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 31 to 71 mL/minute). Maximal plasma concentrations are increased approximately 80% in patients with renal dysfunction. It is unknown what effect hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis has on plasma concentrations of almotriptan.

Pediatrics

There are no differences in the rate or extent of absorption of almotriptan in children and adolescents 12 to 17 years of age compared to adults.

Geriatric

Compared to younger healthy adults, older adults have lower renal and total clearances of almotriptan, a 25% increase in AUC, and a slight prolongation of the terminal half-life (3.7 hours vs. 3.2 hours); these differences are not considered clinically significant.

Gender Differences

No significant differences in pharmacokinetics have been observed between male and female subjects.

Ethnic Differences

No significant differences in pharmacokinetics have been observed between Caucasian and African-American subjects.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Administer without regard to meals.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

25 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

25 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

25 mg/day PO.

Children

12 years: 25 mg/day PO.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Almotriptan Malate 12.5mg Oral tablet

Almotriptan Malate 6.25mg Oral tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

The recommended initial dose is 6.25 mg PO; the maximum dosage is 12.5 mg per 24-hour period.

Renal Impairment

CrCl 31 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
CrCl 30 mL/minute or less (severe renal impairment): Initial dose is 6.25 mg PO; maximum dosage is 12.5 mg per 24-hour period.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis:
No dosage recommendations are available.
Peritoneal dialysis:
No dosage recommendations are available.

© 2026 Elsevier