=== Temsirolimus (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3546)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Temsirolimus, an ester analog of sirolimus, is an inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and was the first FDA-approved mTOR antagonist for the treatment of renal cell cancer (RCC).

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 25 mg IV once weekly.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, apnea, flushing, hypotension, infusion-related reactions, conjunctivitis, fever, immunosuppression, increased urinary frequency, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, cough, dyspnea, hypoxia, pneumonitis, hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, dysgeusia, gi bleeding, gi perforation, metabolic acidosis, pancreatitis, weight loss, arthralgia, asthenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Temsirolimus is a FDA pregnancy risk category D drug. Advise females of childbearing potential to avoid becoming pregnant throughout treatment and for 3 months after temsirolimus cessation. Extravasation risk: Nonvesicant Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1

Brand Names
  - Torisel

Dosage Forms
  - Temsirolimus 25mg/1mL Solution for injection
  - Temsirolimus 25mg/1mL Solution for injection with Diluent
  - Torisel 25mg/mL Solution for Injection Kit

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        25 mg IV over 30 to 60 minutes once weekly until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Premedicate patients with diphenhydramine 25 mg to 50 mg IV (or similar antihistamine) approximately 30 minutes before the start of each dose of temsirolimus. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In a phase 3 randomized, open-label study, treatment with temsirolimus significantly improved median overall survival (10.9 months vs. 7.3 months) and median progression-free survival (5.5 months vs. 3.1 months) compared with interferon-alpha therapy. The overall response rate was 8.6% versus 4.8%, respectively.
    Heading
    For the treatment of advanced renal cell cancer

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Temsirolimus is a FDA pregnancy risk category D drug. Advise females of childbearing potential to avoid becoming pregnant throughout treatment and for 3 months after temsirolimus cessation. Temsirolimus can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. If temsirolimus is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, apprise the patient of the potential hazard to the fetus. Also, counsel men regarding the effects of temsirolimus on the fetus and sperm before treatment initiation. Men with partners of childbearing potential should use reliable contraception throughout treatment and are recommended to continue this for 3 months after the last temsirolimus dose.
 
According to the manufacturer of temsirolimus, breast-feeding should be discontinued because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from temsirolimus and because of the potential of the active metabolite, sirolimus, for tumorigenicity shown in animal studies. Temsirolimus excretion into human milk is unknown. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally ingested drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.
 
The safety and effectiveness of temsirolimus in children have not been established.
 
Administer temsirolimus cautiously to patients with hepatic disease. Temsirolimus is cleared predominantly by the liver (see Pharmacokinetics), but no data are currently available regarding the influence of hepatic dysfunction on temsirolimus disposition. Additionally, sirolimus is the active metabolite of temsirolimus, and patients with hepatic disease require sirolimus dosage adjustments (see sirolimus monograph).
 
Administer temsirolimus cautiously to patients with known hypersensitivity to temsirolimus, sirolimus, polysorbate 80, or any other inactive ingredient. Patients with polysorbate 80 hypersensitivity may not be appropriate candidates for temsirolimus receipt. The supplied diluent contains 40% w/v of polysorbate 80, 42.8% w/v of polyethylene glycol 400, and 19.9% w/v of dehydrated alcohol. After addition of 1.8 ml of the diluent (see Administration) to a drug vial, the solution contains 35.2% alcohol. Both the temsirolimus and diluent vials have butyl rubber stoppers. Administer an antihistamine to patients before the start of the intravenous temsirolimus infusion (see Administration). Administer temsirolimus with caution if a patient has a hypersensitivity to an antihistamine or if a patient cannot receive an antihistamine for other medical reasons.
 
Patients with diabetes mellitus may require antidiabetic medication dosage adjustment, as temsirolimus may cause hyperglycemia (see Adverse Reactions). Measure the serum glucose concentration before and during temsirolimus receipt. Instruct patients to report excessive thirst or any increase in the volume or frequency of urination.
 
Patients with bone marrow suppression may not be appropriate candidates for temsirolimus, as the drug may cause immunosuppression. Increased susceptibility to infection may result from immunosuppression (see Adverse Reactions). Reactivation of a latent viral infection such as herpes infection can occur. Carefully observe patients for infection including opportunistic infections. Close contact with patients who have received live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus.
 
Patients with pulmonary disease may not be appropriate candidates for temsirolimus receipt. Temsirolimus has been associated with sometimes fatal cases of interstitial lung disease (see Adverse Reactions). Some patients were asymptomatic with infiltrates detected on computed tomography scan or chest radiograph. Symptoms may include dyspnea, cough, hypoxia, and fever. Advise patients to promptly report any new or worsening respiratory symptoms.
 
Patients with hypertriglyceridemia or hyperlipidemia may not be appropriate candidates for temsirolimus receipt, as temsirolimus may worsen pre-existing hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia (see Adverse Reactions). Hypertriglyceridemia and/or hypercholesterolemia may require initiation or dose escalation of lipid-lowering agents. Determine serum cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations before and during temsirolimus receipt. Also, carefully consider the risk versus benefit of temsirolimus receipt in patients with established hyperlipidemia or cardiac disease such as coronary artery disease before temsirolimus initiation.
 
Cautious use of temsirolimus by patients undergoing surgery is warranted because abnormal wound healing has been associated with the drug (see Adverse Reactions).
 
Cautious use of temsirolimus by patients with a brain tumor or taking anticoagulant therapy is warranted due to a potentially increased risk of potentially fatal intracerebral or intracranial bleeding (see Adverse Reactions).
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Use temsirolimus with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus, as treatment is likely to increase serum glucose. An increase in the dose of antidiabetic medication may be necessary. Measure the serum glucose concentration before and during temsirolimus therapy. Instruct patients to report excessive thirst or any increase in the volume or frequency of urination.
    Headline
    hepatic failure, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Temsirolimus is contraindicated in patients with hyperbilirubinemia greater than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Reduce the dose of temsirolimus if use is necessary in patients with mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 1 to 1.5 times ULN; AST greater than ULN with normal bilirubin); monitor for an increase in the incidence and/or severity of adverse reactions. In a phase 1 dose escalation trial, patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment (baseline bilirubin greater than 1.5 times ULN) experienced an increased risk of death, including death due to progressive disease, and an increased frequency of grade 3 or higher adverse reactions compared to patients with a baseline bilirubin less than or equal to 1.5 times ULN. Monitor AST and bilirubin before initiation of temsirolimus therapy and periodically thereafter; concentrations of temsirolimus and its metabolite sirolimus were increased in patients with elevated AST or bilirubin levels. Data are not available for patients with hepatic failure.
    Headline
    immunosuppression, infection
    General Information
    Use temsirolimus with caution in patients with an active infection; treatment can result in myelosuppression, which may increase the severity of an infection and impede recovery. Consider pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PJP) prophylaxis in patients receiving concomitant therapy with corticosteroids or other treatments causing immunosuppression.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use temsirolimus with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with temsirolimus. Monitor a chest CT or chest X-ray at baseline and periodically during treatment, even in the absence of clinical respiratory symptoms. Advise patients to report any new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt temsirolimus therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms. A dose reduction or permanent discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for recurrent or severe pneumonitis.
    Headline
    hyperlipidemia
    General Information
    Use temsirolimus with caution in patients with a history of hyperlipidemia. Temsirolimus has been associated with hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia in clinical trials, which may require initiation or dose adjustment of lipid-lowering therapy. Monitor serum cholesterol and triglycerides before and during treatment with temsirolimus.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Temsirolimus can cause fetal harm based on its mechanism of action. There are no available data on the use of temsirolimus during human pregnancy. In animal studies, oral administration of temsirolimus to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis caused adverse embryo-fetal effects, including reduced fetal weight, reduced ossification, omphalocele, bifurcated sternabrae, and notched ribs at 0.04 and 0.12 times the AUC in patients at the recommended dose. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential hazard to the fetus.
    Headline
    brain metastases, brain tumor
    General Information
    Use temsirolimus with caution in patients who have a primary brain tumor or brain metastases or who are taking anticoagulant therapy. These patients may be at increased risk of potentially fatal intracerebral or intracranial bleeding.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with temsirolimus. Temsirolimus may cause fetal harm. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking temsirolimus and for 3 months after the last dose. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during temsirolimus treatment and for 3 months after the last dose. Although there are no data regarding the effect of temsirolimus on human fertility, male and female infertility has been observed in animal studies; it is not known if these effects were reversible.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking temsirolimus and for 3 weeks after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of temsirolimus in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Trace amounts of sirolimus, the active metabolite of temsirolimus, was present in the milk of lactating rats when administered sirolimus.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Temsirolimus can cause fetal harm based on its mechanism of action. There are no available data on the use of temsirolimus during human pregnancy. In animal studies, oral administration of temsirolimus to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis caused adverse embryo-fetal effects, including reduced fetal weight, reduced ossification, omphalocele, bifurcated sternabrae, and notched ribs at 0.04 and 0.12 times the AUC in patients at the recommended dose. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential hazard to the fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with temsirolimus. Temsirolimus may cause fetal harm. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking temsirolimus and for 3 months after the last dose. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during temsirolimus treatment and for 3 months after the last dose. Although there are no data regarding the effect of temsirolimus on human fertility, male and female infertility has been observed in animal studies; it is not known if these effects were reversible.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of dolutegravir.
Abrocitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus and adagrasib due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. If adagrasib is discontinued, resume the original temsirolimus dose after a washout period of approximately 1 week. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor did not have a significant effect on temsirolimus exposure, but increased the exposure of sirolimus (the primary and active metabolite) by 3.1-fold.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of temsirolimus and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of temsirolimus. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in budesonide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Budesonide is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of budesonide.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amiodarone is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Atorvastatin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with benazepril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of clarithromycin before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of temsirolimus. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If apalutamide is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of apalutamide. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of atazanavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of atazanavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of atazanavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of atazanavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of cobicistat before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Atorvastatin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of atorvastatin.
Azithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with azithromycin is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with benazepril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with benazepril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with temsirolimus is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with brigatinib is necessary. Temsirolimus is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Brigatinib inhibits P-gp in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of P-gp substrates.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in budesonide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Budesonide is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of budesonide.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in budesonide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Budesonide is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of budesonide.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in budesonide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Budesonide is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of budesonide.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cannabidiol is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Captopril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with captopril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with captopril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with carbamazepine due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If carbamazepine is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of carbamazepine. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus- and carvedilol-related adverse reactions if coadministration is necessary. Both drugs are P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of carvedilol; exposure to temsirolimus may also increase.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week and monitor for temsirolimus-related adverse reactions. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of ceritinib before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloramphenicol with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of chloramphenicol before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of clarithromycin before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with clevidipine Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another calcium channel blocker.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of cobicistat before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Cobimetinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of cobimetinib.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and temsirolimus due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with conivaptan is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and conivaptan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions if coadministration of temsirolimus with cyclosporine is necessary; monitor cyclosporine levels. Both drugs are P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of both cyclosporine and temsirolimus.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary in patients with CrCl greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of dabigatran; serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function.
Danicopan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with danicopan is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and danicopan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with daridorexant is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and daridorexant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of darunavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus); exposure to darunavir may also be increased. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of darunavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. Darunavir is also a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of darunavir.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of cobicistat before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. (Major) Avoid coadministration of darunavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus); exposure to darunavir may also be increased. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of darunavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. Darunavir is also a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of darunavir.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of cobicistat before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. (Major) Avoid coadministration of darunavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus); exposure to darunavir may also be increased. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of darunavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. Darunavir is also a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of darunavir. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with temsirolimus is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
dexAMETHasone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with dexamethasone due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If dexamethasone is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of dexamethasone. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and dexamethasone is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus- and quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration is necessary. Both drugs are P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of both temsirolimus and quinidine.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Monitor digoxin levels and watch for an increase in digoxin -related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Digoxin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of digoxin.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with diltiazem; an increase in diltiazem-related adverse reactions may also occur. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another calcium channel blocker.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of dolutegravir.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of dolutegravir.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of dolutegravir.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with temsirolimus due to the potential for increased doxorubicin exposure. Doxorubicin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Clinically significant interactions have been reported with inhibitors of P-gp, resulting in increased concentration and clinical effect of doxorubicin.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with temsirolimus due to the potential for increased doxorubicin exposure. Doxorubicin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Clinically significant interactions have been reported with inhibitors of P-gp, resulting in increased concentration and clinical effect of doxorubicin.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Edoxaban: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in edoxaban-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Dosage reduction may be considered for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism. Edoxaban is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of edoxaban.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
Elacestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with elacestrant is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and elacestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ivacaftor is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Both ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite have the potential to inhibit P-gp. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with tezacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and tezacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with eliglustat is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and eliglustat is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of cobicistat before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with temsirolimus is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of cobicistat before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with temsirolimus is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with temsirolimus is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with enalapril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with enalapril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with enasidenib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and enasidenib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus and encorafenib due to the risk of decreased temsirolimus exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If encorafenib is discontinued, resume the original temsirolimus dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer did not have a significant effect on temsirolimus exposure but decreased the exposure of sirolimus (the primary and active metabolite) by 56%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with temsirolimus due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus and ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, resume the original temsirolimus dose after a washout period of approximately 1 week. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of sirolimus, the primary and active metabolite of temsirolimus, by 3.1-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with enzalutamide due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of temsirolimus. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If enzalutamide is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of enzalutamide. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Erdafitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse reactions of both temsirolimus and erythromycin if coadministration is necessary. Both drugs are P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of both drugs.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with etravirine is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and etravirine is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with felodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another calcium channel blocker.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with flibanserin is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and flibanserin is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in umeclidinium-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Umeclidinium is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of umeclidinium.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fosamprenavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus); exposure to fosamprenavir may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of fosamprenavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. Fosamprenavir is also a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of fosamprenavir.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with fosinopril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with fosinopril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If fosphenytoin is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of fosphenytoin. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of pibrentasvir and temsirolimus as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. Both pibrentasvir and temsirolimus are substrates and inhibitors of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse reactions of both glecaprevir and temsirolimus if coadministration is necessary. Both drugs are P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of both glecaprevir and temsirolimus.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glyburide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Glyburide is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of glyburide.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glyburide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Glyburide is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of glyburide.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during temsirolimus treatment due to the risk for increased temsirolimus exposure and adverse reactions. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with moexipril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ibrutinib is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and ibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of idelalisib with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of idelalisib before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Imlunestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with isavuconazonium is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and isavuconazonium is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with isradipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another calcium channel blocker.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid use of temsirolimus during and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of itraconazole treatment. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider a dose reduction of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. If itraconazole is discontinued, a washout period of approximately 1 week should be allowed before the temsirolimus dose is adjusted back to the dose used prior to initiation of itraconazole. Concomitant use of temsirolimus with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole may increase blood concentrations of the temsirolimus active metabolite, sirolimus. Although coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not have a significant effect on temsirolimus Cmax and AUC, the Cmax and AUC of sirolimus increased by 2.2-fold and 3.1-fold, respectively.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ivacaftor is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Both ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite have the potential to inhibit P-gp. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of ketoconazole before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of clarithromycin before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions if coadministration of lapatinib with temsirolimus is necessary. Both drugs are P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus and lapatinib.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lasmiditan is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus- and ledipasvir-related adverse reactions if coadministration is necessary. Both drugs are P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of both temsirolimus and ledipasvir.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for lefamulin-related adverse effects if oral lefamulin is administered with temsirolimus as concurrent use may increase exposure from lefamulin tablets; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of temsirolimus with letermovir may result in a clinically relevant increase in sirolimus plasma concentration, the active metabolite of temsirolimus. Avoid coadministration in patients also receiving cyclosporine, because the magnitude of this interaction may be increased. If temsirolimus must be coadministered with both letermovir and cyclosporine, a temsirolimus dose reduction to 12.5 mg per week should be considered. If letermovir or cyclosporine is discontinued, a washout period of approximately 1 week should be allowed before the temsirolimus dose is adjusted back to the dose used prior to initiation of concurrent treatment. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent administration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor had no significant effect on temsirolimus maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) or exposure (AUC); however, sirolimus AUC increased 3.1-fold and Cmax increased 2.2-fold.
Levacetylleucine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with levacetylleucine is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of ketoconazole before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with lisinopril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with lisinopril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lomitapide is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus and lonafarnib due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. If lonafarnib is discontinued, resume the original temsirolimus dose after a washout period of approximately 1 week. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and lonafarnib is a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not have a significant effect on temsirolimus exposure but increased the exposure of sirolimus (the primary and active metabolite) by 3.1-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with temsirolimus. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with temsirolimus. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritonavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus); exposure to ritonavir may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of ritonavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. Ritonavir is also a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of ritonavir.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If lumacaftor; ivacaftor is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of lumacaftor. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ivacaftor is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Both ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite have the potential to inhibit P-gp. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If lumacaftor; ivacaftor is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of lumacaftor. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary; a dose adjustment of maraviroc may be necessary. Maraviroc is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of maraviroc.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both drugs if concomitant use of mavorixafor and temsirolimus is necessary. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs. Both drugs are P-gp substrates and inhibitors.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus- and mefloquine-related adverse reactions if coadministration is necessary. Both drugs are P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates inhibitors. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus and mefloquine.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid chronic coadministration of mifepristone with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of mifepristone before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with mitotane due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If mitotane is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of mitotane. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of temsirolimus with modafinil is necessary, and monitor for decreased efficacy of temsirolimus. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate, and modafinil is a moderate inducer of CYP3A4. The manufacturer of temsirolimus recommends a dose increase if coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer, but recommendations are not available for concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inducers. Co-administration of temsirolimus with rifampin, a strong CYP3A4/5 inducer, had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased sirolimus AUC by 56% and Cmax by 65%.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with moexipril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary; a morphine dose adjustment may be necessary. Morphine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Naldemedine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of naldemedine.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not use sirolimus concomitantly with temsirolimus. Temsirolimus is extensively metabolized in the liver primarily by cytochrome P450 3A4, but also by P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Five metabolites are formed, but sirolimus is the principal and active metabolite; the remainder of the metabolites account for less than 10% of radioactivity in plasma. Residual sirolimus concentrations are present up to a week after temsirolimus administration.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nefazodone with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of nefazodone before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nelfinavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus); exposure to nelfinavir may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of nelfinavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotien (P-gp) inhibitor. Nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of nelfinavir via P-gp inhibition.
Neratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with neratinib is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and neratinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with nicardipine; an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions may also occur. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another calcium channel blocker.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with nifedipine; an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions may also occur. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another calcium channel blocker.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with nimodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another calcium channel blocker.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritonavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus); exposure to ritonavir may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of ritonavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. Ritonavir is also a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of ritonavir.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with nisoldipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another calcium channel blocker.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with rifabutin due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If rifabutin is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of rifabutin. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Osimertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osimertinib is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and osimertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with perindopril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with perindopril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus and phenobarbital due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If phenobarbital is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of phenobarbital. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus and phenobarbital due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If phenobarbital is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of phenobarbital. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus and phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased temsirolimus exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If phenytoin/fosphenytoin is discontinued, resume the original temsirolimus dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin and fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer did not have a significant effect on temsirolimus exposure but decreased the exposure of sirolimus (the primary and active metabolite) by 56%.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pirtobrutinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and pirtobrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of posaconazole with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus); exposure to posaconazole may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of posaconazole before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of posaconazole.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of temsirolimus with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Pretomanid: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with primaquine is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and primaquine is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with primidone due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If primidone is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of primidone. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and temsirolimus due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with propafenone is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and propafenone is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with quinapril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with quinapril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus- and quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration is necessary. Both drugs are P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of both temsirolimus and quinidine.
quiNINE: (Major) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus- and quinine-related adverse reactions if coadministration is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and inhibitor. Quinine is also a P-gp substrate, as well as a weak P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of quinine; exposure to temsirolimus may also increase.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with ramipril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with ramipril.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus- and ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration is necessary. Both drugs are P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of both temsirolimus and ranolazine.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus and relacorilant due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. If relacorilant is discontinued, resume the original temsirolimus dose after a washout period of approximately 1 week. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor did not have a significant effect on temsirolimus exposure, but increased the exposure of sirolimus (the primary and active metabolite) by 3.1-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral temsirolimus. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer temsirolimus at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral temsirolimus. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer temsirolimus at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with temsirolimus due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of ribociclib before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of ribociclib before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with rifabutin due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If rifabutin is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of rifabutin. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with rifampin due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If rifampin is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of rifampin. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus and rifapentine due to the risk of decreased temsirolimus exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If rifapentine is discontinued, resume the original temsirolimus dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer did not have a significant effect on temsirolimus exposure but decreased the exposure of sirolimus (the primary and active metabolite) by 56%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with temsirolimus; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Riociguat: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of temsirolimus with riociguat is necessary, and monitor for an increase in riociguat-related adverse reactions. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor in vitro, and riociguat is a P-gp substrate. Pharmacokinetic data are not available for concomitant use of temsirolimus with P-gp substrates, but exposure to riociguat is likely to increase.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritonavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus); exposure to ritonavir may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of ritonavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. Ritonavir is also a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of ritonavir.
Rolapitant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rolapitant is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and rolapitant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in romidepsin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Romidepsin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of romidepsin.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of saquinavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus); exposure to saquinavir may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of saquinavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. Saquinavir is also a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of saquinavir.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Ethinyl estradiol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may to lead to increased concentrations of ethinyl estradiol.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with selpercatinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and selpercatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Silodosin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of silodosin.
Sirolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not use sirolimus concomitantly with temsirolimus. Temsirolimus is extensively metabolized in the liver primarily by cytochrome P450 3A4, but also by P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Five metabolites are formed, but sirolimus is the principal and active metabolite; the remainder of the metabolites account for less than 10% of radioactivity in plasma. Residual sirolimus concentrations are present up to a week after temsirolimus administration.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with velpatasvir is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with velpatasvir is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxilaprevir is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and voxilaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
SORAfenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sorafenib is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and sorafenib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sotorasib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and sotorasib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with St. Johns Wort due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. Johns Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer; however, the amount of individual constituents in various products may alter the inducing effects of St. Johns Wort, making drug interactions unpredictable. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid the use of temsirolimus with sunitinib if possible, due to the combination resulting in dose-limiting toxicity. In the first cohort of a phase 1 study with temsirolimus (15 mg/kg IV per week) and sunitinib (25 mg by mouth daily on days 1 through 28, followed by a 2-week rest), dose-limiting toxicities such as grade 3 or 4 erythematous maculopapular rash and gout/cellulitis requiring hospitalization were observed in 2 of 3 patients treated.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with temsirolimus is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
Tepotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with tepotinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ivacaftor is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Both ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite have the potential to inhibit P-gp. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with tezacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and tezacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tipranavir with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus); tipranavir exposure may also increase. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of tipranavir before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. Tipranavir is also a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of tipranavir.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; temsirolimus may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with trandolapril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with trandolapril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with verapamil; an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions may also occur. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another calcium channel blocker. Both drugs are also P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of both temsirolimus and diltiazem.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus and tucatinib due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. If tucatinib is discontinued, resume the original temsirolimus dose after a washout period of approximately 1 week. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not have a significant effect on temsirolimus exposure, but increased the exposure of sirolimus (the primary and active metabolite) by 3.1-fold.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with temsirolimus. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Umeclidinium: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in umeclidinium-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Umeclidinium is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of umeclidinium.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in umeclidinium-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Umeclidinium is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of umeclidinium.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with tezacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and tezacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vemurafenib is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and vemurafenib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with temsirolimus due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Additionally, temsirolimus exposure may be increased. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of temsirolimus. Both venetoclax and temsirolimus are P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Vepdegestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with verapamil; an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions may also occur. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another calcium channel blocker. Both drugs are also P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates and inhibitors. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of both temsirolimus and diltiazem.
Vimseltinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vimseltinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and vimseltinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with vincristine due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. The effect of concomitant use of P-gp inhibitors has not been investigated, but it is likely that these agents will alter the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of vincristine.
vinCRIStine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with vincristine due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. The effect of concomitant use of P-gp inhibitors has not been investigated, but it is likely that these agents will alter the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of vincristine.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voclosporin is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of clarithromycin before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voriconazole with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of voriconazole before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but increased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Zonisamide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions when starting or stopping therapy with zonisamide, or when changing the dose of zonisamide. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and zonisamide is a P-gp inhibitor. There is a theoretical potential for zonisamide to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs which are P-gp substrates.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: Temsirolimus dose interruption and reduction are needed for any National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria (NCI CTC) toxicity of grade 3 or greater (see Dosage).Patients who have received temsirolimus have had hypersensitivity reactions characterized by anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, flushing, and/or chest pain (unspecified). Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 9% had an allergic or hypersensitivity reaction, 28% had dyspnea (9% had grade 3 or 4 severity), and 26% had cough. Dyspnea, cough, and chest pain may also be indicative of pulmonary toxicity (see applicable paragraph). Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 16% had chest pain; and 47% had a rash (unspecified), maculopapular rash, bullous rash, vesicular rash, or exfoliative dermatitis; grade 3 or 4 severity occurred in 5% of patients. Pruritus occurred in 19%, xerosis in 11%, and acne in 10% of patients. Determine any known hypersensitivity to temsirolimus, to sirolimus, and to any inactive temsirolimus ingredients (see Contraindications) before drug administration. Also, administer an antihistamine to patients before the start of each temsirolimus infusion. Stop the infusion and observe the patient for at least 30—60 minutes if a patient develops a hypersensitivity reaction. If deemed appropriate by the physician, temsirolimus may be resumed; administer an H1-receptor antagonist if one was not previously administered and/or an H2-receptor antagonist such as intravenous famotidine 20 mg or intravenous ranitidine 50 mg approximately 30 minutes before restarting the infusion at a slower rate of up to 60 minutes.Hyperglycemia is associated with temsirolimus. Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 89% had at least one elevated serum glucose concentration; grade 3 or 4 severity was seen in 16% of patients. Patients with diabetes mellitus may require antidiabetic medication dosage adjustment. Also, patients without a history of diabetes mellitus may need initiation of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agent therapy. Measure the serum glucose concentration before and during temsirolimus receipt. Instruct patients to report excessive thirst or any increase in the volume or frequency of urination.Temsirolimus may cause immunosuppression. Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 94% had anemia, 53% had lymphopenia, 32% had leukopenia, and 19% had neutropenia. Blood cell count reductions may be severe; grade 3 or 4 severity anemia occurred in 20%, lymphopenia occurred in 16%, leukopenia occurred in 1%, and neutropenia occurred in 5% of patients. Temsirolimus dose interruption and reduction are needed if the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is less than 1000/mm3 (see Dosage). Infections such as herpes simplex, herpes zoster, cellulitis, and bronchitis were noted in 20% of patients; 3% had grade 3 or 4 severity. Pneumonia occurred in 8%, upper respiratory tract infection occurred in 7%, rhinitis occurred in 10%, and pharyngitis occurred in 12% of patients. Fever was noted in 24% and chills were noted in 8% of patients; fever may be indicative of an infection, lung toxicity, or bowel perforation among other causes (see applicable paragraphs). In the randomized, phase 3 trial, complete blood counts were checked weekly, and chemistry panels were checked every two weeks. Laboratory monitoring may need to be performed more or less frequently at the physician's discretion. Carefully observe patients for infection including opportunistic infections.Temsirolimus receipt has been associated with sometimes fatal cases of interstitial lung disease; symptoms may include dyspnea, cough, hypoxia, and fever. Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 5 had interstitial lung disease. Some patients required temsirolimus discontinuation and/or treatment with corticosteroids and/or antibiotics. Among 22 patients who got temsirolimus 25 mg weekly, 8 developed pulmonary abnormalities compatible with drug-induced pneumonitis within 2—16 weeks of temsirolimus initiation. Pulmonary abnormalities such as infiltrates were detected on computed tomography scan or chest radiograph. Two different radiological patterns were noted: lung parenchymal consolidation or ground glass opacities with or without diffuse interstitial disease. Of 3 patients with lung parenchymal consolidation, 2 were asymptomatic. Of 5 patients with ground glass opacities, 2 were asymptomatic. Symptomatic patients had symptoms such as dry cough, fever, eosinophilia, chest pain (unspecified), and dyspnea on exertion. Temsirolimus was discontinued in 4 of the 8 patients: one for invasive aspergillosis, 2 due to the simultaneous occurrence of cancer progression and drug-induced pneumonitis, and 1 due to disease progression. Clinical and/or radiological improvements were noted in all 4 patients. Temsirolimus was temporarily interrupted in 2 patients (2 weeks in 1 patient and 3 weeks in the second); one patient had a mildly reduced diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide. Temsirolimus was reinstituted because of clinical status and pulmonary function test result stability; the drug was stopped due to other toxicity in 1 patient, and the other patient received at least 10 cycles without difficulty. The remaining 2 patients remained on temsirolimus; both patients had few or no symptoms, and their radiological abnormalities remained stable. The risk of interstitial lung disease is increased with temsirolimus doses greater than 25 mg. Monitor patients for symptoms or radiographic changes of interstitial lung disease. If interstitial lung disease is suspected, discontinue temsirolimus, and consider use of corticosteroids and/or antibiotics. Advise patients to promptly report any new or worsening respiratory symptoms.Hypertriglyceridemia and hyperlipidemia are associated with temsirolimus. Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 87% had at least one elevated serum cholesterol value, and 83% had at least one elevated serum triglyceride concentration. Hypertriglyceridemia and/or hyperlipidemia may require initiation or dose escalation of lipid-lowering agents. Determine serum cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations before and during temsirolimus receipt.Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 1 had a fatal bowel or GI perforation. Patients presented with fever, abdominal pain, metabolic acidosis, bloody stools, diarrhea, and/or acute abdomen. The risk of bowel perforation is increased with temsirolimus doses greater than 25 mg. Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 41% had mucositis (aphthous stomatitis, glossitis, oral ulceration, stomatitis), 32% had anorexia, 19% had weight loss, 20% had dysgeusia (includes taste loss and taste perversion), 19—37% had nausea/vomiting, 27% had diarrhea, 21% had abdominal pain, and 20% had constipation; up to 4% of the patients had events of grade 3 or 4 severity with the exception of constipation.Cases of rapidly progressive and sometimes fatal acute renal failure (unspecified) not clearly related to disease progression occurred in patients who received temsirolimus. Some of the cases were not responsive to dialysis. Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 57% had increased serum creatinine of any severity grade; 3% had grade 3 or 4 severity. Also, 15% of patients had cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, urinary frequency, and/or urinary tract infection. Monitor patients' renal function before and during temsirolimus therapy.Abnormal or impaired wound healing has been associated with temsirolimus receipt. Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 3 had impaired wound healing. Cautious use of the drug during the perioperative period is warranted (see Contraindications).Patients with central nervous system tumors either a primary tumor or metastases may be at an increased risk of developing potentially fatal intracerebral or intracranial bleeding while receiving temsirolimus. Also, patients taking anticoagulation therapy and temsirolimus may be at an increased risk of developing intracerebral bleeding. Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 12% had grade 1 or 2 epistaxis. Bleeding may be due to thrombocytopenia, which occurred in 40% of the patients; grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 1% of patients. Temsirolimus dose interruption and reduction are needed if the platelet count is less than 75,000/mm3 (see Dosage).Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 8% had hyperbilirubinemia; 1% had grade 3 or 4 severity. Elevated hepatic enzymes (increased AST concentrations, 38%), increased alkaline phosphatase concentrations (68%), hypophosphatemia (49%), and hypokalemia (21%) commonly occurred. Reductions in serum phosphorus and potassium concentrations may be severe; grade 3 or 4 hypophosphatemia occurred in 18% of patients, and grade 3 or 4 hypokalemia occurred in 5% of patients.Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 51% had asthenia, 35% had edema or peripheral edema, 15% had headache, 18% had arthralgia, 8% had myalgia, 12% had insomnia. Asthenia can be severe, 11% had grade 3 or 4 severity.Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 7% had conjunctivitis.Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 7% had hypertension, 2% had venous thromboembolism including deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, and 1% had thrombophlebitis. The risk of thrombosis is increased with temsirolimus doses greater than 25 mg.Neither seizures nor psychosis were observed among 208 patients with renal cell cancer who received temsirolimus 25 mg IV weekly. The risk of seizures and psychosis is increased with temsirolimus doses greater than 25 mg. Repeated doses of temsirolimus as high as 220 mg/m2 were administered to patients in phase 1 and 2 trials. The FDA-approved temsirolimus dosage for renal cell cancer of 25 mg corresponds to a dose of approximately 15 mg/m2.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, apnea, flushing, hypotension, infusion-related reactions
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity and infusion-related reactions, including flushing, chest pain, dyspnea, hypotension, apnea, loss of consciousness, anaphylactic shock and other anaphylactoid reactions, have occurred in patients treated with temsirolimus. These reactions can occur very early in the first infusion, but may also occur with subsequent infusions. Monitor patients throughout the infusion and ensure appropriate supportive care is available. If a reaction occurs, interrupt the infusion and observe for 30 to 60 minutes depending on the severity of the reaction. The infusion may be resumed at a slower rate at the physician's discretion after resolution and administration of an H1-receptor antagonist (e.g., diphenhydramine) if not previously administered, and/or an H2-receptor antagonist (e.g., famotidine).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      apnea
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      infusion-related reactions
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia is associated with temsirolimus treatment. In a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial, 89% (grade 3 or 4, 16%) of temsirolimus-treated patients (n = 208) had at least one elevated serum glucose while on treatment compared with 64% (grade 3 or 4, 3%) of those treated with interferon-alpha (n = 200); 26% of patients who received temsirolimus reported hyperglycemia as an adverse reaction. An adjustment or addition of antidiabetic medication may be necessary. Diabetes mellitus occurred in 5% of patients in the temsirolimus arm. Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors such as temsirolimus block the insulin-mediated increase in the protein synthesis of glucose transport protein GLUT1, which helps transport glucose into most tissues. Normally, insulin via mTOR inactivates a translational suppressor (4E-BP1) of GLUT1, and GLUT1 expression is increased. In the presence of a mTOR inhibitor, GLUT1 expression in response to insulin is suppressed, and insulin fails to stimulate glucose uptake.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diabetes mellitus
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    conjunctivitis, fever, immunosuppression, increased urinary frequency, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis
    General Information
    Treatment with temsirolimus may cause immunosuppression, which increases the risk for infection (including opportunistic infections). In a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial, 20% (grade 3 or 4, 3%) of temsirolimus-treated patients (n = 208) developed an infection compared with 10% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) of those treated with interferon-alpha (n = 200), including abscess, bronchitis, cellulitis, herpes simplex, and herpes zoster. In addition, urinary tract infection (including cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, and increased urinary frequency) (all grade, 15% vs. 12%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 2%), pharyngitis (grade 1 or 2, 12% vs. 2%), and rhinitis (grade 1 or 2, 10% vs. 2%) were reported. Conjunctivitis (including lacrimation disorder) (8%), pneumonia (8%), upper respiratory tract infection (7%), wound infection (1%), and sepsis (1%) were also reported in the temsirolimus arm. Fever occurred more often in patients treated with interferon-alfa (all grade, 50% vs. 4%) compared with temsirolimus (all grade, 24%; grade 3 or 4, 1%). Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PJP), including some fatal cases, has also occurred in patients treated with temsirolimus; this may be associated with concomitant use of corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive therapy which may require prophylactic antibiotics.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      immunosuppression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, hypoxia, pneumonitis
    General Information
    Interstitial lung disease / pneumonitis, including some fatalities, has been reported in patients treated with temsirolimus. Symptoms may include dyspnea, cough, hypoxia, and fever, although some patients treated with temsirolimus were asymptomatic or had minimal symptoms, and infiltrates were detected on computed tomography (CT) scan or chest radiograph. In a phase 3, randomized, open-label trial, patients treated with temsirolimus (n = 208) experienced dyspnea (all grade, 28% vs. 24%; grade 3 or 4, 9% vs. 6%) and cough (all grade, 26% vs. 15%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 0%) more often than patients treated with interferon alfa (n = 200). In another study, 8 of 22 patients who received temsirolimus 25 mg weekly developed pulmonary abnormalities compatible with drug-induced pneumonitis within 2 to 16 weeks of temsirolimus initiation. Of the 8 patients with pulmonary abnormalities, 4 had clinical and/or radiological improvement with temsirolimus discontinuation, 2 with few or no symptoms continued temsirolimus and had stable radiological abnormalities, and 2 had temporary temsirolimus interruption.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Temsirolimus therapy may cause hyperlipidemia. In a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial, 87% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) of patients treated with temsirolimus (n = 208) had at least one elevated serum cholesterol value (hypercholesterolemia) compared with 48% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of those who received interferon-alpha. At least one elevated serum triglyceride value (hypertriglyceridemia) was reported in 83% (grade 3 or 4, 44%) of those treated with temsirolimus compared with 72% (grade 3 or 4, 35%) of those in the interferon-alpha arm. Initiation or dose adjustment of lipid-lowering agents may be necessary.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperlipidemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, GI bleeding, GI perforation, metabolic acidosis, nausea, pancreatitis, vomiting, weight loss
    General Information
    Fatal bowel or GI perforation has been reported in patients treated with temsirolimus. Patients presented with fever, abdominal pain, metabolic acidosis, bloody stools, diarrhea, and/or acute abdomen. Instruct patients to promptly report any new or worsening abdominal pain or blood in their stools. The risk of bowel perforation is increased with temsirolimus doses greater than 25 mg. GI bleeding and rectal bleeding each occurred in 1% of patients treated with temsirolimus. Additional gastrointestinal adverse effects include nausea (all grade, 37%; grade 3 or 4, 2%); anorexia (all grade, 32%; grade 3 or 4, 3%); abdominal pain (all grade, 21%; grade 3 or 4, 4%); constipation (grade 1 or 2, 20%); dysgeusia, including taste loss and taste perversion (grade 1 or 2, 20%); weight loss (all grade, 19%: grade 3 or 4, 1%); and vomiting (all grade, 17%; grade 3 or 4, 2%). The elderly may be more likely to experience diarrhea, which was reported in 27% of patients (grade 3 or 4, 1%). Pancreatitis, cholecystitis, and cholelithiasis have been observed in post-marketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI perforation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      metabolic acidosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholecystitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholelithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    renal failure (unspecified)
    General Information
    Cases of rapidly progressive and sometimes fatal acute renal failure (unspecified) not clearly related to disease progression occurred in patients who received temsirolimus. Some of the cases were not responsive to dialysis. In a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial, increased creatinine was reported in 57% (grade 3 or 4, 3%) of patients treated with temsirolimus compared with 49% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of those who received interferon-alpha.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    impaired wound healing
    General Information
    Temsirolimus has been associated with abnormal or impaired wound healing in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impaired wound healing
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    epistaxis
    General Information
    Mild (grade 1 or 2) epistaxis was reported in 12% of patients treated with temsirolimus (n = 208) compared with 4% of those who received interferon-alpha (n = 200) in a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, asthenia, back pain, chills, depression, headache, insomnia, myalgia, rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    In a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial, the following generalized adverse reactions were reported more often in patients treated with temsirolimus (n = 208) compared with interferon-alpha (n = 200): pain (all grade, 28% vs. 16%; grade 3 or 4, 5% vs. 2%), back pain (all grade, 20% vs. 14%; grade 3 or 4, 3% vs. 4%), arthralgia (all grade, 18% vs. 15%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 1%), and headache (all grade, 15% vs. 15%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 0%). Asthenia (all grade, 51% vs. 64%; grade 3 or 4, 11% vs. 26%), chills (all grade, 8% vs. 30%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 2%), myalgia (all grade, 8% vs. 15%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 1%), insomnia (all grade, 12% vs. 15%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 0%), and depression (all grade, 4% vs. 14%; grade 3 or 4, 0% vs. 2%) occurred less frequently with temsirolimus treatment compared with interferon-alpha. Complex regional pain syndrome (reflex sympathetic dystrophy) and rhabdomyolysis were noted in postmarketing experience with temsirolimus.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    phlebitis, pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism, thrombosis
    General Information
    Among 208 patients who received temsirolimus for renal cell cancer, 2% developed venous thromboembolism including deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism (including fatal outcomes); thrombo-phlebitis was reported in 1% of temsirolimus-treated patients. The risk of thrombosis is increased with temsirolimus doses greater than 25 mg.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thromboembolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      phlebitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    psychosis, seizures
    General Information
    Convulsions (seizures) were observed in 1% of 208 patients with renal cell cancer who received temsirolimus 25 mg IV weekly. Psychosis has not been reported, but is a risk of treatment with temsirolimus doses greater than 25 mg; the risk of seizures is also increased with doses above 25mg.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    glossitis, oral ulceration, stomatitis
    General Information
    Stomatitis (including aphthous stomatitis, glossitis, oral ulceration, mucositis, and stomatitis) was reported in 32% (grade 3 or 4, 3%) of patients treated with temsirolimus (n = 208) compared with 10% (grade 3 or 4, 0%) of those who received interferon-alpha (n = 200) in a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial. Data suggest that mTOR inhibitor-associated stomatitis is a distinct entity from conventional chemotherapy-induced or radiotherapy-induced oral mucositis based on clinical presentation and association with co-toxicities. The oral lesions associated with mTOR inhibitors resemble aphthous ulcers, as they are discrete, well demarcated ulcers that are present in the movable oral mucosa and are not associated with other gastrointestinal signs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      glossitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, pericardial effusion, peripheral edema, pleural effusion
    General Information
    Edema, including facial edema and peripheral edema, was reported in 35% (grade 3 or 4, 3%) of patients treated with temsirolimus (n = 208) compared with 11% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of those who received interferon-alpha (n = 200) in a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial. Additionally, pleural effusion (4%) and pericardial effusion (1%) occurred in temsirolimus-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pericardial effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes have occurred in patients treated with temsirolimus. In a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial, the following hepatic adverse reactions were reported in patients treated with temsirolimus (n = 208) versus interferon-alpha (n = 200): increased alkaline phosphatase (all grade, 68% vs. 56%; grade 3 or 4, 3% vs. 7%), increased AST (all grade, 38% vs. 52%; grade 3 or 4, 2% vs. 7%), and hyperbilirubinemia (all grade, 8% vs. 13%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Electrolyte abnormalities were reported more often with temsirolimus therapy (n = 208) compared with interferon-alfa treatment (n = 200) in a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial, including hypophosphatemia (all grade, 49% vs. 31%; grade 3 or 4, 18% vs. 9%) and hypokalemia (all grade, 21% vs. 8%; grade 3 or 4, 5% vs. 0%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, xerosis
    General Information
    In a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial, dermatologic adverse reactions occurred more frequently in patients treated with temsirolimus (n = 208) compared with interferon-alpha (n = 200), including rash (e.g., eczema, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, pruritic rash, pustular rash, and vesiculobullous rash) (all grade, 47% vs. 7%; grade 3 or 4, 5% vs. 0%), pruritus (all grade, 19% vs. 8%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 0%), nail disorder (grade 1 or 2, 14% vs. 1%), xerosis (all grade 11% vs. 7%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 0%), and acne vulgaris (grade 1 or 2, 10% vs. 1%). Additionally Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported in postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    injection site reaction
    General Information
    There are postmarketing reports of temsirolimus extravasation causing an injection site reaction consisting of swelling, pain, warmth, and erythema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    nephrotic syndrome, proteinuria
    General Information
    Proteinuria, including cases of nephrotic syndrome, has occurred in patients treated with temsirolimus.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotic syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic adverse reactions were reported in a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial where treatment with temsirolimus (n = 208) was compared with interferon-alpha (n = 200), including anemia (all grade, 94% vs. 90%; grade 3 or 4, 20% vs. 22%), lymphopenia (all grade, 53% vs. 53%; grade 3 or 4, 16% vs. 24%), neutropenia (all grade, 19% vs. 29%; grade 3 or 4, 5% vs. 10%), thrombocytopenia (all grade, 40% vs. 26%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 0%), and leukopenia (all grade, 32% vs. 47%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 6%). Temsirolimus should not be administered if the ANC is less than 1,000/mm3 or the platelet count is less than 75,000/mm3.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angioedema
    General Information
    Angioedema has been reported in postmarketing experience with temsirolimus. Angioneurotic edema-type reactions, including delayed reactions occurring 2 months after initiation of therapy, have also been observed in some patients treated with temsirolimus and ACE inhibitors concomitantly.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), hypertension
    General Information
    In a randomized, open-label, phase 3 clinical trial, chest pain (unspecified) was reported in 16% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients treated with temsirolimus (n = 208) compared with 9% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of those who received interferon-alpha (grade 3 or 4, 1%). Additionally, 7% of patients treated with temsirolimus reported hypertension.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Temsirolimus, an ester analog of sirolimus, is an inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and was the first FDA-approved mTOR antagonist for the treatment of renal cell cancer (RCC). Treatment with temsirolimus significantly improved overall survival and progression-free survival compared with interferon alfa in patients with previously untreated advanced RCC (clear cell and non-clear cell histologies). Exposure to temsirolimus increases significantly with hepatic impairment. Significant hypersensitivity / infusion-related reactions have been reported with temsirolimus administration; premedication with an antihistamine is recommended. Additionally temsirolimus can cause significant immunosuppression. Live vaccines should be avoided, and patients should be closely monitored for infection.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Temsirolimus is an inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), which is a protein kinase. Sirolimus, the active metabolite of temsirolimus, also inhibits mTOR. Both temsirolimus and sirolimus bind to an intracellular protein called FKBP-12, and this protein-drug complex inhibits the activity of mTOR that controls cell division. Inhibition of mTOR activity results in a G1 growth arrest in tumor cells. When mTOR is inhibited, its ability to phosphorylate p70S6k and S6 ribosomal protein, which are downstream of mTOR in the PI3 kinase / AKT pathway, is blocked. In vitro, using renal cell carcinoma cell lines, temsirolimus inhibited the activity of mTOR and resulted in reduced concentrations of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and the hypoxia-inducible factors HIF-1 alpha and HIF-2 alpha.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    In patients with cancer, the mean maximum serum concentration (Cmax) of temsirolimus in whole blood after a single 25 mg IV dose was 585 ng/mL, typically occurring at the end of the infusion; the mean AUC was 1,627 ng x hr/mL. Temsirolimus exposure increased in a less than dose-proportional manner over the dose range of 1 to 25 mg. In contrast, exposure of the active metabolite, sirolimus, increased proportionally with dose. The sirolimus AUC was 2.7-fold that of the temsirolimus AUC after a single 25 mg intravenous dose of temsirolimus in patients with cancer, primarily due to the longer half-life of sirolimus.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The safety and pharmacokinetics of temsirolimus were evaluated in a phase 1 dose escalation study. Patients with a baseline bilirubin greater than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) experienced greater toxicity than patients with baseline bilirubin less than 1.5 times ULN.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No clinical studies were conducted with temsirolimus in patients with decreased renal function. Renal impairment is not expected to markedly influence drug exposure. Temsirolimus has not been studied in patients undergoing hemodialysis.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The singe- and multiple-dose total systemic exposures (AUC) of temsirolimus and active metabolite, sirolimus, were less than dose-proportional over the range of 10 to 150 mg/m2 in a phase 2 study in pediatric patients with advanced recurrent/refractory solid tumors (n = 19). After multiple doses, the geometric mean body surface adjusted clearance of temsirolimus and sirolimus was 9.45 L/hour/m2 and 9.26 L/hour/m2, respectively, in an additional 35 patients in the same trial. The mean elimination half-life was 31 hours and 44 hours, respectively. The exposure (AUC) to temsirolimus was approximately 6-times higher and to sirolimus, approximately 2-fold higher, in pediatric patients compared with adult patients given a single temsirolimus 25 mg IV infusion.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age did not affect the exposure of temsirolimus in a population pharmacokinetic-based data analysis.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender did not affect the exposure of temsirolimus in a population pharmacokinetic-based data analysis.
  Text
  Temsirolimus is administered by intravenous infusion. The mean steady-state volume of distribution (Vd) of temsirolimus in whole blood was 172 liters in cancer patients after a single 25 mg IV dose; both temsirolimus and sirolimus are extensively partitioned into formed blood elements. Temsirolimus is extensively metabolized in the liver primarily by CYP3A4. Five metabolites are formed, with sirolimus as the principal and active metabolite; the remainder of the metabolites account for less than 10% of radioactivity in plasma. Temsirolimus is primarily eliminated via the feces. After a single radiolabeled IV dose, 4.6% was recovered in the urine, and 78% was recovered in the feces, and approximately 82% of total radioactivity was eliminated within 14 days. After a single 25 mg dose of temsirolimus in cancer patients, the mean systemic clearance was 16.2 L/hour (CV, 22%). Temsirolimus exhibits a bi-exponential decline in whole blood concentrations. The mean half-life of temsirolimus was 17.3 hours, and the mean half-life of sirolimus was 54.6 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
Temsirolimus is extensively metabolized in the liver primarily by CYP3A4. Temsirolimus is also a substrate and inhibitor of the efflux transporter P-gp. Increased plasma concentrations of temsirolimus are likely when administered with P-gp inhibitors; increased concentrations of P-gp substrates are likely when administered with temsirolimus. In human liver microsomes, temsirolimus was an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. However, no clinically significant effect is anticipated when temsirolimus is coadministered with agents that are metabolized by CYP2D6 or CYP3A4.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.
Extravasation Risk
Nonvesicant
Premedication
Premedicate patients with diphenhydramine (or similar antihistamine) 25 mg to 50 mg IV approximately 30 minutes before the start of each dose of temsirolimus.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Intravenous infusion:
Administer intravenously over 30 to 60 minutes. The use of an infusion pump is preferred to ensure accurate delivery.
Use non-DEHP, non-PVC tubing (e.g., glass, polyolefin, or polyethylene) to avoid excessive loss of product and DEHP extraction. If a PVC administration set must be used, it should not contain DEHP.
Use an in-line polyethersulfone filter with a pore size of not greater than 5 microns for administration. If the administration set available does not have an in-line filter incorporated, a polyethersulfone filter (0.2 microns to 5 microns) should be added at the set (i.e., an end-filter) before the admixture reaches the vein of the patient. The use of both an in-line and end-filter is not recommended.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Do not add other drugs or nutritional agents to the admixture.
Temsirolimus is degraded by both acids and bases; do not add agents that are capable of modifying pH.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
 
Initial dilution of temsirolimus with the supplied diluent solution:
NOTE: Two dilutions are required before intravenous infusion; the addition of undiluted drug solution directly to normal saline will cause drug precipitation. Only use the supplied diluent for the initial dilution.
Using aseptic technique, dilute temsirolimus vial contents with 1.8 mL of the provided diluent; the resulting 3 mL of solution will have a drug concentration of 10 mg/mL, which is stable below 25 degrees C for up to 24 hours.
Invert the vial to mix well and allow sufficient time for air bubbles to subside. Inspect the solution for particulate matter and discoloration; the solution should be clear to slightly turbid, colorless to light-yellow, and essentially free from visual particulates.
Protect from excessive room light and sunlight.
 
Further dilution of concentrated temsirolimus-diluent mixture:
Withdraw the required amount from the 10 mg/mL concentrated temsirolimus-diluent solution.
Use bottles (e.g., glass, polypropylene) or plastic bags that do not contain PVC (e.g., polypropylene, polyolefin) for the final temsirolimus dilution. Do not use PVC infusion bags or sets, as the plasticizer DEHP (di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate) may be leached from PVC. Temsirolimus contains polysorbate 80, which is known to increase the rate of DEHP extraction from PVC.
Inject into an infusion bag or bottle containing 250 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. The stability of temsirolimus in other infusion solutions has not been evaluated.
Mix the admixture by inversion of the bag or bottle; avoid excessive shaking, as this may cause foaming. Protect from excessive room light and sunlight.
Administer the temsirolimus final dilution through polyethylene-lined administration sets within 6 hours from the time temsirolimus is first added to 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    25 mg IV once weekly.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    25 mg IV once weekly.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild impairment (bilirubin greater than 1 to 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or AST greater than ULN but bilirubin less than or equal to the upper limit of normal): Reduce the dose to 15 mg per week.
 
Bilirubin greater than 1.5 times ULN: Temsirolimus is contraindicated for use.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
