=== Telavancin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3433)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Telavancin (Vibativ) is the first FDA-approved agent in the lipoglycopeptide class of antibiotics.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 10 mg/kg/day IV.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): chills, dizziness, headache, erythema, flushing, infusion-related reactions, pruritus, rash, urticaria, vancomycin infusion reaction, metallic taste, c. difficile-associated diarrhea, pseudomembranous colitis, superinfection

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use telavancin with caution in individuals with known vancomycin hypersensitivity; it is unknown if individuals with vancomycin hypersensitivity will experience cross-reactivity to...

Brand Names
  - Vibativ

Dosage Forms
  - VIBATIV 750mg Powder for Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: Administer serum pregnancy test to women of childbearing age prior to treatment with telavancin. If the patient is pregnant, avoid telavancin use as treatment may result in abnormal fetal development. If the patient is not pregnant, provide instruction on effective contraception use during telavancin treatment (see Contraindications).
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 mg/kg/dose IV every 24 hours for 5 to 14 days.
    Heading
    For the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections caused by susceptible gram-positive bacteria
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 mg/kg/dose IV every 24 hours for 7 to 21 days.
    Heading
    For the treatment of hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated nosocomial pneumonia caused by S. aureus when alternative treatments are not appropriate
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 mg/kg/dose IV every 24 hours for infections with reduced susceptibility to vancomycin and daptomycin.
    Heading
    For the treatment of persistent Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) bacteremia† and vancomycin failure†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use telavancin with caution in individuals with known vancomycin hypersensitivity; it is unknown if individuals with vancomycin hypersensitivity will experience cross-reactivity to telavancin.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, hypertension, mortality, nephrotoxicity, renal disease, renal impairment
    General Information
    Avoid using telavancin in individuals with moderate to severe renal impairment (CrCl 50 mL/minute or less) unless the benefits outweigh the potential risks. Pooled data from 2 clinical studies found the 28-day all-cause mortality rate for nosocomial pneumonia subjects with preexisting renal impairment to be higher in telavancin recipients (39%; n = 95/241) than in those treated with vancomycin (30%; n = 72/243). However, in subjects with normal renal function (CrCl more than 50 mL/minute), the mortality rates for the 2 drugs were similar; 17% (n = 86/510) for telavancin vs. 18% (n = 92/510) for vancomycin. Studies have also shown that subjects with baseline renal dysfunction have a decreased response to treatment with telavancin. In studies involving complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSI), telavancin-treated subjects with preexisting renal impairment (CrCl 50 mL/minute or less) had a lower clinical cure rate (67.4%) when compared to subjects with normal renal function (87%). In addition, treatment with telavancin may result in the development of nephrotoxicity. In clinical studies, the percentage of telavancin-treated subjects experiencing an adverse event indicative of renal impairment (increased serum creatinine, renal impairment/failure) was higher than what was reported for vancomycin (3% to 10% vs. 1% to 8%). Nephrotoxicity was determined to occur more commonly in subjects with baseline comorbid conditions (preexisting renal disease, diabetes mellitus, heart failure, or hypertension) and in subjects concurrently receiving medications that affect kidney function (nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, ACE inhibitors, and loop diuretics). For most subjects, serum creatinine concentrations returned to baseline after telavancin discontinuation. Monitor renal function in all individuals receiving telavancin; obtain serum creatinine concentrations prior to, during (at 48- to 72-hour intervals), and after treatment discontinuation. A telavancin dose reduction is required for individuals with renal impairment. If renal function decreases, assess the benefits of continuing telavancin therapy vs. discontinuing and initiating therapy with an alternative agent. In individuals with renal impairment, accumulation of the solubilizer hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin can occur.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, heart failure, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, left ventricular hypertrophy, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of telavancin in people with baseline QT prolongation or congenital long QT syndrome. Use telavancin with caution in people who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Additionally, avoid telavancin use in people with uncompensated heart failure or severe left ventricular hypertrophy.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Because geriatric adults are more likely to have decreased renal function, take care in telavancin dose selection in this age group. Telavancin is substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of adverse reactions may be greater in individuals with impaired renal function. In complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) clinical trials, lower clinical cure rates were observed in subjects 65 years and older compared with those younger than 65 years. Fifteen of 174 (9%) subjects 65 years and older treated with telavancin had adverse events indicative of renal impairment compared with 16 of 755 (2%) subjects younger than 65 years.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Telavancin may cause fetal harm when used during pregnancy, based on findings in animal reproduction studies. There are no available data on telavancin use during human pregnancy to evaluate for drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In embryo-fetal developmental studies in animals, telavancin demonstrated the potential to cause limb and skeletal malformations when given intravenously during organogenesis at doses providing 1- to 2-fold the human exposure at the maximum recommended clinical dose. Malformations observed at less than 1% included brachymelia, syndactyly, adactyly, and polydactyly. Additional findings included flexed front paw, absent ulna, misshapen digits, deformed front leg, decreased fetal body weights, and an increased number of stillborn pups. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant individuals exposed to telavancin. Health care providers can register pregnant individuals or the pregnant individual can enroll themselves by calling 1-877-484-2700.
    Headline
    embryo-fetal toxicity, people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with telavancin. Telavancin may cause fetal harm based on adverse developmental outcomes in 3 animal species at clinically relevant doses. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking telavancin and for 2 days after the last dose. Based on animal studies, telavancin may impair male fertility. This effect was reversible in rats.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use telavancin with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of telavancin in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition. Vancomycin, daptomycin, clindamycin, and sulfamethoxazole; trimethoprim may be potential alternatives to consider during breast-feeding.  Assess site of infection, personal factors, local susceptibility patterns, and specific microbial susceptibility before choosing an alternative agent. Vancomycin is excreted in human milk; however, absorption from the GI tract of any ingested vancomycin would be minimal. Daptomycin has a high molecular weight; therefore, excretion into human milk may be limited. In a single subject with daptomycin human milk concentration measured on day 27 of therapy (dose of 6.7 mg/kg IV), a peak concentration of 44.7 mcg/L was obtained 8 hours after the dose with an estimated milk:plasma ratio of 0.0012.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Telavancin may cause fetal harm when used during pregnancy, based on findings in animal reproduction studies. There are no available data on telavancin use during human pregnancy to evaluate for drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In embryo-fetal developmental studies in animals, telavancin demonstrated the potential to cause limb and skeletal malformations when given intravenously during organogenesis at doses providing 1- to 2-fold the human exposure at the maximum recommended clinical dose. Malformations observed at less than 1% included brachymelia, syndactyly, adactyly, and polydactyly. Additional findings included flexed front paw, absent ulna, misshapen digits, deformed front leg, decreased fetal body weights, and an increased number of stillborn pups. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant individuals exposed to telavancin. Health care providers can register pregnant individuals or the pregnant individual can enroll themselves by calling 1-877-484-2700.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with telavancin. Telavancin may cause fetal harm based on adverse developmental outcomes in 3 animal species at clinically relevant doses. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking telavancin and for 2 days after the last dose. Based on animal studies, telavancin may impair male fertility. This effect was reversible in rats.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as acyclovir may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Adefovir: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as adefovir may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Aldesleukin, IL-2: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of telavancin and aldesleukin; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with alfuzosin. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Amikacin: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs (e.g., systemic aminoglycosides) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Telavancin is closely related to vancomycin. In one clinical study, vancomycin coadministration, high aminoglycoside trough levels, and heart failure independently predicted acute kidney injury during aminoglycoside treatment. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on creatinine clearance/renal function, and aminoglycoside doses based on renal function and serum aminoglycoside concentrations as clinically indicated.
Aminoglycosides: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs (e.g., systemic aminoglycosides) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Telavancin is closely related to vancomycin. In one clinical study, vancomycin coadministration, high aminoglycoside trough levels, and heart failure independently predicted acute kidney injury during aminoglycoside treatment. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on creatinine clearance/renal function, and aminoglycoside doses based on renal function and serum aminoglycoside concentrations as clinically indicated.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when amisulpride is administered with telavancin. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with telavancin. Both telavancin and clarithromycin are associated with QT prolongation, while clarithromycin is also associated with an established risk for TdP.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as amphotericin B may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as amphotericin B may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Amphotericin B: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as amphotericin B may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Anagrelide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include telavancin.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with other anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Apixaban: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with telavancin since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Argatroban: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concurrent use of arsenic trioxide and telavancin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation and should be discontinued prior to initiating arsenic trioxide therapy. QT prolongation should be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. TdP and complete atrioventricular block have also been reported with arsenic trioxide.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concurrent use of telavancin and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if telavancin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Both telavancin and artemether; lumefantrine are associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Asenapine: (Major) Telavancin and asenapine have been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, telavancin should be used with caution when prescribing other agents also known to prolong the QT interval. However, according to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to prolong the QT interval.
Aspirin, ASA: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bacitracin: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as systemic bacitracin may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering bedaquiline with telavancin. Both drugs have been reported to prolong the QT interval. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of telavancin and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as loop diuretics may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Captopril: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Celecoxib: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with telavancin if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib causes concentration-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Telavancin is also associated with QT prolongation.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with telavancin due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concurrent use of chlorpromazine and telavancin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Phenothiazines have also been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and/or TdP. This risk is generally higher at elevated drugs concentrations of phenothiazines. Chlorpromazine is specifically associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP; case reports have included patients receiving therapeutic doses of chlorpromazine.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The administration of cidofovir with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as telavancin is contraindicated. Discontinue telavancin at least 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with telavancin is contraindicated.
CISplatin: (Moderate) Closely monitor renal function if concomitant use with cisplatin and telavancin is necessary. Both drugs can cause nephrotoxicity, which may be additive when used together.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with telavancin. Both telavancin and clarithromycin are associated with QT prolongation, while clarithromycin is also associated with an established risk for TdP.
Class IA Antiarrhythmics: (Major) Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine) should be used cautiously with telavancin. Class IA antiarrhythmics are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) and telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of telavancin and clindamycin may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with clozapine. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation, while treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, TdP, cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, such as colistimethate sodium, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Colistin: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, such as colistimethate sodium, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with telavancin due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
cycloSPORINE: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as cyclosporine may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of telavancin and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation during concurrent use of dasatinib and telavancin. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Desflurane: (Major) Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, telavancin should be used with caution when prescribing other agents also known to prolong the QT interval (e.g., halogenated anesthetics).
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Use caution if telavancin is administered with deutetrabenazine. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine) should be used cautiously with telavancin. Class IA antiarrhythmics are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) and telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Diclofenac: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Diflunisal: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Disopyramide: (Major) Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine) should be used cautiously with telavancin. Class IA antiarrhythmics are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) and telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and telavancin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Use donepezil with caution in combination with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Use donepezil with caution in combination with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and telavancin is contraindicated. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving other agents that may prolong the QT interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with droperidol include telavancin.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with telavancin. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with telavancin. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with telavancin. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Due to increased risk of QT interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), use caution if telavancin is administered with eliglustat. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of telavancin and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of telavancin and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of telavancin and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and telavancin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Encorafenib is associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with telavancin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Both entrectinib and telavancin have been associated with QT prolongation.
eriBULin: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as telavancin, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of escitalopram and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as loop diuretics may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Etodolac: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fenofibrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of telavancin and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenofibric Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of telavancin and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenoprofen: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering fingolimod concomitantly with telavancin. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluconazole and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with fluphenazine. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Fluphenazine, a phenothiazine, is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Flurbiprofen: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of fluvoxamine and telavancin. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Cases of QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as telavancin. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment. Also, concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as foscarnet may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Use caution if telavancin is administered with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as loop diuretics may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Ganciclovir: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as ganciclovir may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with gemifloxacin. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Gemifloxacin may also prolong the QT interval in some patients, with the maximal change in the QTc interval occurring approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of gemifloxacin; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and telavancin together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Gentamicin: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs (e.g., systemic aminoglycosides) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Telavancin is closely related to vancomycin. In one clinical study, vancomycin coadministration, high aminoglycoside trough levels, and heart failure independently predicted acute kidney injury during aminoglycoside treatment. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on creatinine clearance/renal function, and aminoglycoside doses based on renal function and serum aminoglycoside concentrations as clinically indicated.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and telavancin is necessary. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with telavancin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval and telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Use granisetron with caution in combination with telavancin due to increased risk for QT prolongation. Both granisetron and telavancin have been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, telavancin should be used with caution when prescribing other agents also known to prolong the QT interval (e.g., halogenated anesthetics).
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Caution is advisable when combining haloperidol concurrently with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Heparin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of intravenous unfractionated heparin infusions and telavancin is contraindicated as the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) test results are expected to be artificially prolonged for 0 to 18 hours after telavancin administration. Although telavancin does not increase bleeding risk and has no effect on platelet aggregation, it does interfere with some coagulation tests by binding to and preventing activation of coagulation by phospholipid reagents commonly used in laboratory tests. For patients who require aPTT monitoring while being treated with telavancin, a nonphospholipid dependent coagulation test, such as a Factor Xa (chromogenic) assay, or an alternative anticoagulant not requiring aPTT monitoring may be considered.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval and telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Ibuprofen: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Ibutilide: (Major) Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Use caution and close monitoring during concurrent administration.
Iloperidone: (Major) Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; however, torsade de pointes (TdP) has not been reported. According to the manufacturer, since iloperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as telavancin.
Indomethacin: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with telavancin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Both inotuzumab and telavancin have been associated with QT interval prolongation.
Isoflurane: (Major) Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, telavancin should be used with caution when prescribing other agents also known to prolong the QT interval (e.g., halogenated anesthetics).
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Use itraconazole with caution in combination with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Itraconazole and telavancin have been associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with telavancin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and telavancin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Ketoprofen: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Ketorolac: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with telavancin. Both telavancin and clarithromycin are associated with QT prolongation, while clarithromycin is also associated with an established risk for TdP.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes if coadministration of lapatinib with telavancin is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to treatment. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Lapatinib has also been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with telavancin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Telavancin also has been associated with QT prolongation.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and telavancin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lithium and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor ECG if lofexidine is coadministered with telavancin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as loop diuretics may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Due to increased risk of QT interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), use caution if telavancin is administered with loperamide. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Due to increased risk of QT interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), use caution if telavancin is administered with loperamide. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, TdP, and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with telavancin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Low Molecular Weight Heparins: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as telavancin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Mefenamic Acid: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. There is also evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. However, due to the lack of clinical data, mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Meloxicam: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Methadone: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with methadone. The need to coadminister these drugs should be done with careful assessment of treatment risks versus benefits. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and TdP, especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Laboratory studies, both in vivo and in vitro, have demonstrated that methadone inhibits cardiac potassium channels and prolongs the QT interval. Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midostaurin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and telavancin may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received telavancin.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concurrent use of telavancin and moxifloxacin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Moxifloxacin has also been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Additionally, post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including TdP, usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded.
Nabumetone: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Naproxen: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and telavancin; significant prolongation of the QT interval may occur. Sudden death and QT prolongation have occurred in patients who received nilotinib therapy. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Norethindrone: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Norgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with olanzapine. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine also may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with olanzapine. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine also may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with olanzapine. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine also may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Oral Contraceptives: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of telavancin with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor electrolytes and ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of telavancin with oxaliplatin is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Oxaprozin: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking telavancin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as telavancin. However, if coadministration is necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential.
Pamidronate: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as pamidronate may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Panobinostat: (Major) QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with panobinostat include telavancin.
Paromomycin: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs (e.g., systemic aminoglycosides) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Telavancin is closely related to vancomycin. In one clinical study, vancomycin coadministration, high aminoglycoside trough levels, and heart failure independently predicted acute kidney injury during aminoglycoside treatment. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on creatinine clearance/renal function, and aminoglycoside doses based on renal function and serum aminoglycoside concentrations as clinically indicated.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concurrent use of pazopanib and telavancin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If these drugs must be coadministered, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Both pazopanib and telavancin have been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as intravenous pentamidine may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance. In addition, both telavancin and pentamidine have been associated with QT prolongation. Caution is recommended when prescribing these drugs together.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with perphenazine. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Perphenazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with perphenazine. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Perphenazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as telavancin. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Because of the potential for TdP, use of telavancin with pimozide is contraindicated.
Piroxicam: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Plazomicin: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs (e.g., systemic aminoglycosides) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Telavancin is closely related to vancomycin. In one clinical study, vancomycin coadministration, high aminoglycoside trough levels, and heart failure independently predicted acute kidney injury during aminoglycoside treatment. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on creatinine clearance/renal function, and aminoglycoside doses based on renal function and serum aminoglycoside concentrations as clinically indicated.
Polymyxin B: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as polymyxin B may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking telavancin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Use posaconazole with caution in combination with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Procainamide: (Major) Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine) should be used cautiously with telavancin. Class IA antiarrhythmics are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) and telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Due to increased risk of QT interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), use caution if telavancin is administered with prochlorperazine. Both telavancin and prochlorperazine have been associated with QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
quiNIDine: (Major) Class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine) should be used cautiously with telavancin. Class IA antiarrhythmics are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) and telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
quiNINE: (Major) Concurrent use of quinine and telavancin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinine has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of TdP. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Due to increased risk of QT interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), use caution if telavancin is administered with ranolazine. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Use caution if telavancin is administered with relugolix. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) Use caution if telavancin is administered with relugolix. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with telavancin due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with telavancin due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Use risperidone and telavancin together with caution due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Rivaroxaban: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Telavancin has also been asociated with QT prolongation.
Salicylates: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Salsalate: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Saquinavir: (Major) Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid administering saquinavir boosted with ritonavir concurrently with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as telavancin. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of selpercatinib with telavancin is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sertraline and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, telavancin should be used with caution when prescribing other agents also known to prolong the QT interval (e.g., halogenated anesthetics).
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving telavancin due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering solifenacin with telavancin. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval; TdP has been reported during post-marketing use, although causality was not determined. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with telavancin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Both drugs are associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of telavancin and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Streptomycin: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs (e.g., systemic aminoglycosides) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Telavancin is closely related to vancomycin. In one clinical study, vancomycin coadministration, high aminoglycoside trough levels, and heart failure independently predicted acute kidney injury during aminoglycoside treatment. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on creatinine clearance/renal function, and aminoglycoside doses based on renal function and serum aminoglycoside concentrations as clinically indicated.
Streptozocin: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as streptozocin may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Sulindac: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if sunitinib is administered with telavancin. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as tacrolimus may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance. In addition, telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, telavancin should be used with caution when prescribing other agents known to prolong the QT interval such as tacrolimus.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of telavancin and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). The manufacturer recommends avoiding concurrent use of tetrabenazine with other drugs known to prolong QTc such as telavancin.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is considered contraindicated for use along with telavancin which, when combined with thioridazine, may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of TdP, and/or cause orthostatic hypotension.
Tobramycin: (Major) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs (e.g., systemic aminoglycosides) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Telavancin is closely related to vancomycin. In one clinical study, vancomycin coadministration, high aminoglycoside trough levels, and heart failure independently predicted acute kidney injury during aminoglycoside treatment. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on creatinine clearance/renal function, and aminoglycoside doses based on renal function and serum aminoglycoside concentrations as clinically indicated.
Tolmetin: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering tolterodine with telavancin. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of telavancin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as loop diuretics may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with trifluoperazine. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Trifluoperazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with telavancin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with vemurafenib. If these drugs must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Both telavancin and vemurafenib have been associated with QT prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and telavancin may increase the risk of QT prolongation and additive nephrotoxicity. Consider interventions to minimize the risk of progression to torsades de pointes (TdP), such as ECG monitoring and correcting electrolyte abnormalities, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Additionally, monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering clarithromycin with telavancin. Both telavancin and clarithromycin are associated with QT prolongation, while clarithromycin is also associated with an established risk for TdP.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering voriconazole with telavancin. Voriconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of arrhythmias, including TdP. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Due to increased risk of QT interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), use caution if telavancin is administered with vorinostat. Both telavancin and vorinostat have been associated with QT prolongation.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with other anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation-based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose. Additionally, the concomitant use of warfarin with many antibiotics may result in an increased INR thereby potentiating the risk for bleeding. Inhibition of vitamin K synthesis due to alterations in the intestinal flora may be a mechanism; however, concurrent infection is also a potential risk factor for elevated INR. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding. Additionally, increased monitoring of the INR, especially during initiation and upon discontinuation of the antibiotic, may be necessary.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and telavancin should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Zoledronic Acid: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as zoledronic acid may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    chills, dizziness, headache
    General Information
    During the ATLAS 1 and ATLAS 2 studies, adverse events were reported in 79% of the telavancin treated and 72% of the vancomycin treated patients. The incidence of serious adverse events were higher in the telavancin group (7%; most commonly renal, respiratory, or cardiac) than in the vancomycin group (4%; most commonly cardiac, respiratory, or infectious). In addition, more patients in the telavancin group (8%) than in the vancomycin group (6%) discontinued therapy because of an adverse event. Adverse events reported during these studies, and not mentioned elsewhere in this monograph, include abnormal or foamy urine (13%), chills or rigors (4%), dizziness (6%), and headache.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    nephrotoxicity, renal failure (unspecified)
    General Information
    Treatment with telavancin may result in the development of nephrotoxicity. Increases in serum creatinine to 1.5 times baseline occurred in 15% to 16% of telavancin patients with a normal baseline serum creatinine. In clinical studies, renal dysfunction occurred in 3% to 10% of telavancin-treated patients, with up to 5% experiencing renal failure (unspecified). Clinical trials defined renal dysfunction as an increase in serum creatinine concentrations, renal impairment, renal insufficiency, and/or renal failure (unspecified). Nephrotoxicity was determined to occur more commonly in patients with baseline comorbid conditions and in patients concurrently receiving medications that affect kidney function. Monitor renal function in all patients receiving telavancin; obtain serum creatinine concentrations prior to, during (at 48 to 72 hour intervals), and after treatment discontinuation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    erythema, flushing, infusion-related reactions, pruritus, rash, urticaria, vancomycin infusion reaction
    General Information
    Telavancin, like vancomycin, requires intravenous administration over at least 60 minutes. If telavancin is administered too rapidly, infusion-related reactions similar to vancomycin infusion reaction may develop. Signs and symptoms of this infusion reaction include flushing of the upper body, urticaria, pruritus, and rash (unspecified). Stopping or slowing the infusion rate may improve symptoms. In premarketing clinical trials, pruritus (6%), rash (4%), infusion site pain (4%), and infusion site erythema (3%) were associated with telavancin administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infusion-related reactions
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vancomycin infusion reaction
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, metallic taste, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Adverse GI events have been documented during telavancin therapy, with taste disturbance, nausea, and vomiting being the 3 most commonly reported GI side effects. In clinical trials, 33% reported alterations in taste. These taste alterations were described as a soapy or metallic taste and were found to be transient. Telavancin-induced nausea and vomiting was usually reported as mild and occurred in 5% to 27% and 5% to 14% of the patients studied, respectively. Other adverse GI events reported include abdominal pain (2%), diarrhea (7%), and decreased appetite (3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      metallic taste
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    C. difficile-associated diarrhea, pseudomembranous colitis, superinfection
    General Information
    Microbial overgrowth and superinfection can occur with antibiotic use. C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) or pseudomembranous colitis has been reported for nearly all systemic antibacterial drugs, including telavancin, which may range in severity from mild to life-threatening. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile. If pseudomembranous colitis is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibacterial therapy not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Institute appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, C. difficile-directed antibacterial therapy, and surgical evaluation as clinically appropriate. Careful medical history is necessary as pseudomembranous colitis has been reported to occur over 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pseudomembranous colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      superinfection
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      C. difficile-associated diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    Telavancin is associated with QT prolongation. In a study in healthy subjects, the mean maximum baseline-corrected, placebo-corrected QTc prolongation at the end of infusion was estimated to be 12 to 15 msec for telavancin 10 mg/kg, which was based on interpolation of data from telavancin 7.5 and 15 mg/kg, and 22 msec for the positive control. By 1 hour after infusion, the maximum QTc prolongation was 6 to 9 msec for telavancin and 15 msec for the positive control. In complicated skin and skin structure clinical trials, QTc prolongation more than 60 msec was reported 1.5% (15 subjects) in the telavancin group vs. 0.6% (6 subjects) in the vancomycin group; 9 of the 15 telavancin subjects received concomitant medications known to prolong the QTc interval, compared with 1 of the 6 subjects who received vancomycin. A similar number of subjects in each treatment group (less than 1%) who did not receive a concomitant medication known to prolong the QTc interval experienced a prolongation more than 60 msec from baseline. In a separate analysis, 1 subject in the telavancin group and 2 subjects in the vancomycin group experienced a QTc of more than 500 msec. No cardiac adverse events were associated with the QTc prolongation. In the Phase 3 hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated pneumonia studies, QTc prolongation more than 60 msec or mean value more than 500 msec was reported in 8% (52 subjects) in the telavancin group vs. 7% (48 subjects) in the vancomycin group. QTc prolongation resulted in telavancin treatment discontinuation in approximately 1% of subjects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions
    General Information
    Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions, have been reported during postmarketing use of telavancin. These reactions may occur after the first or subsequent doses. Immediately discontinue treatment in patients developing signs/symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on findings in animals, telavancin may cause male infertility. The effects on fertility, including histopathological changes in the seminiferous tubules and epididymides of the testis, were reversible at the end of a 4-week recovery period in rats.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Telavancin may cause laboratory test interference. Although telavancin does not interfere with coagulation, it interfered with certain tests used to monitor coagulation when conducted using samples drawn 0 to 18 hours after telavancin administration for subjects being treated once every 24 hours. Thus, when measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, increases in the prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time (ACT), and coagulation based factor Xa activity assay have been observed. Collect blood samples for these coagulation tests as close as possible prior to an individual's next dose of telavancin. For individuals who require aPTT monitoring while being treated with telavancin, a non-phospholipid dependent coagulation test such as a factor Xa (chromogenic) assay or an alternative anticoagulant not requiring aPTT monitoring may be considered. Telavancin binds to the artificial phospholipid surfaces added to common anticoagulation tests, thereby interfering with the ability of the coagulation complexes to assemble on the surface of the phospholipids and promote clotting in vitro. These effects appear to depend on the type of reagents used in commercially available assays. These effects dissipate over time, as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Telavancin may also interfere with urine qualitative dipstick protein assays and quantitative dye methods (pyrogallol red-molybdate). Telavancin does not interfere with microalbumin assays; thus, microalbumin assays can be used to monitor protein excretion during telavancin therapy.

Description
  Text
  Telavancin (Vibativ) is the first FDA-approved agent in the lipoglycopeptide class of antibiotics. It is a semi-synthetic derivative of vancomycin with rapid concentration-dependent bactericidal action against selected gram-positive organisms, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). It is administered once daily, a potential advantage over some other antimicrobial agents with a similar spectrum of activity; however, it carries boxed warnings for use during pregnancy and in patients with preexisting renal insufficiency, as it has been associated with abnormal fetal development and worsening renal function/increased mortality. Telavancin received FDA approval for treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections caused by susceptible gram-positive bacteria in September 2009. In June 2013, the FDA expanded the drugs approved indications to include use as a last line agent in the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia (hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated) caused by Staphylococcal aureus.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Telavancin is a lipoglycopeptide antibiotic with bactericidal activity against many gram-positive bacteria; telavancin is ineffective against gram-negative bacteria. There are 2 mechanisms by which telavancin exerts its antibacterial activity. First, telavancin, like other glycopeptides, inhibits bacterial cell wall synthesis by binding to the D-Ala-D-Ala terminal of immature, unlinked glycan strands. By binding to these strands, telavancin blocks their interaction with the enzymes transglycosylase and transpeptidase. As a result, peptidoglycan polymerization and cross-linking of the peptidoglycan strands into the bacterial cell wall is prevented. The other mechanism involves incorporation of the lipophilic decylaminoethyl side chain into the bacterial cell membrane. This interaction disrupts the cell membrane integrity by causing depolarization and increasing the permeability of the membrane.
 
Telavancin exerts concentration-dependent, bactericidal activity; therefore, the antibacterial activity of telavancin is best predicted by the ratio of area under the concentration-time curve to minimal inhibitory concentration (AUC/MIC). In addition, in vitro data suggest that telavancin exhibits a post-antibiotic effect of 1 to 6 hours for most gram-positive bacteria.
 
The susceptibility interpretive criteria for telavancin are delineated by pathogen. The MICs for beta-hemolytic streptococci and S. aureus (including MRSA) are defined as susceptible at 0.12 mcg/mL or less. The MICs for Streptococcus viridans group are defined as susceptible at 0.06 mcg/mL or less. The MICs for E. faecalis (vancomycin-susceptible) are defined as susceptible at 0.25 mcg/mL or less. Breakpoints are based on a dosage regimen of 10 mg/kg every 24 hours. Breakpoints are based on a dosage regimen of 10 mg/kg every 24 hours.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    Telavancin displays linear pharmacokinetics after IV administration of both single and multiple doses. In a pharmacokinetic study involving healthy adults, the maximum plasma concentrations resulting from 7 daily IV doses of 7.5, 12.5, and 15 mg/kg were 96.7, 151, and 203 mcg/ml respectively. Steady state plasma concentrations are achieved by days 3 to 4.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of telavancin were evaluated in patients with impaired renal function after the administration of a single 7.5 mg dose. In this study, the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) for patients with CrCl 51—80 ml/min, 30—50 ml/min, and < 30 ml/min were 13%, 29%, and 118% higher, respectively, when compared to patients with normal renal function. In addition, the mean clearance of telavancin's renally excreted solubilizing agent, hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin, was 38%, 59%, and 82% lower, respectively, when compared to normal renal function patients. Dosage adjustments are recommended for patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (see Dosage).
  Text
  Telavancin is administered by intravenous infusion. While in circulation, the drug is 93% bound to human plasma proteins, primarily to albumin. The volume of distribution at steady state is 0.1—0.13 L/kg. The drug distributes into the pulmonary epithelial lining fluid and alveolar macrophages, with concentrations exceeding the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC90) for Staphylococcus aureus for at least 24 hours after dosing. Telavancin does not undergo hepatic metabolism and thus is not expected to be altered by inducers or inhibitors of CYP 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 3A4, 3A5, or 4A11. According to the manufacturer, it is metabolized to 3 hydroxylated metabolites; however, the exact mechanism for metabolism is unknown. The elimination half-life in adults is 8—9 hours after the administration of doses of 7.5—15 mg/kg/day. It is primarily eliminated by the kidneys with approximately 76% of the dose excreted in the urine and < 1% excreted in feces.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters:  CYP3A4, CYP3A5
Telavancin is not an inhibitor of CYP 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, or 2D6. It does inhibit CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, although not to an extent likely to alter the pharmacokinetic parameters of medications metabolized by these enzymes.

Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    10 mg/kg/day IV.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    10 mg/kg/day IV.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl > 50 ml/min: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl 30—50 ml/min: 7.5 mg/kg IV every 24 hours.
CrCl 10—29 ml/min: 10 mg/kg IV every 48 hours.
