=== Levomilnacipran (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3821)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Levomilnacipran is a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) used for the treatment of major depressive disorder in adults.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 120 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, angina, cardiomyopathy, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, dysuria, ejaculation dysfunction, hematuria, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, proteinuria, testicular pain, urinary retention, erythema multiforme, hot flashes, hyperhidrosis, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash (unspecified), stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, xerosis, blurred vision, mydriasis, ocular hemorrhage, xerophthalmia

In an Overdose: Caregivers and/or patients should immediately notify the prescriber of changes in behavior or suicidal ideation during treatment with levomilnacipran. depression Moderate suicidal ideation Severe serotonin syndrome Serotonin syndrome has...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Cross-sensitivity is possible in people with a previous history of milnacipran hypersensitivity.

Brand Names
  - FETZIMA

Dosage Forms
  - FETZIMA 120mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - FETZIMA 20mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - FETZIMA 20mg-40mg Titration Pack Extended-Release Capsule
  - FETZIMA 40mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - FETZIMA 80mg Extended-Release Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        20 mg PO once daily for 2 days, then 40 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose by 40 mg/day at intervals of at least 2 days if inadequate response and depending on tolerability. Usual dose: 40 to 120 mg/day. Max: 120 mg/day. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Periodically re-evaluate the need for ongoing treatment. When discontinuing therapy, decrease dose gradually; consider resuming the previous dose and decreasing the dose more gradually if intolerable symptoms occur upon discontinuation or dose decrease.
    Heading
    For the treatment of major depression

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Cross-sensitivity is possible in people with a previous history of milnacipran hypersensitivity. Levomilnacipran is a single enantiomer of milnacipran, which is a racemic mixture.
    Headline
    adolescents, children, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Safe and effective use of levomilnacipran has not been established for the treatment of depression in children and adolescents less than 18 years of age. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials of antidepressants (n = 4,500 pediatrics and 77,000 adults), there was an increased risk for suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, adolescents, and young adult patients 24 years of age and younger receiving an antidepressant versus placebo, with considerable variation in the risk of suicidality among drugs. The difference in absolute risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across different indications was highest in those with major depression. The need for an antidepressant in children, adolescents, or young adults for any use must be weighed against the risk of suicidality; it is unknown if this risk extends to long-term use. All patients should be monitored for symptom worsening or suicidality, especially at treatment initiation or after dose changes. Caregivers and/or patients should immediately notify the prescriber of changes in behavior or suicidal ideation. A change to the treatment regimen or discontinuation of levomilnacipran may be necessary in patients with emerging suicidality or worsening depression.
    Headline
    bipolar disorder
    General Information
    Activation of mania, hypomania, or a mixed episode may occur with medications used to treat depression, especially in people predisposed to bipolar disorder. A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. Prior to initiating treatment with levomilnacipran, people with depressive symptoms should be screened for risk factors for bipolar disorder, including a detailed personal psychiatric history and family history of bipolar disorder, suicide, and/or depression. If an individual taking levomilnacipran develops symptoms consistent with mania or hypomania, the medication should be discontinued, and appropriate therapy should be initiated.
    Headline
    cardiovascular disease
    General Information
    Patients receiving levomilnacipran should have regular monitoring of heart rate and blood pressure, as the drug may increase blood pressure and heart rate. Caution should be exercised when using levomilnacipran in patients with pre-existing cardiovascular disease such as hypertension, cerebrovascular disease, or other conditions that might be compromised by increases in blood pressure or heart rate. Pre-existing hypertension, tachyarrhythmias, or other cardiac conditions should be controlled prior to initiating treatment. Cases of elevated blood pressure requiring immediate treatment have been reported with levomilnacipran. Sustained blood pressure increases could have adverse consequences. For patients who experience a sustained increase in blood pressure or heart rate while receiving levomilnacipran, either dosage reduction or discontinuation should be considered.
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    Levomilnacipran should be used with caution in people with a history of seizures, a seizure disorder, or other conditions that may lower the seizure threshold. Levomilnacipran has not been systematically evaluated in patients with a seizure disorder, and patients with a history or seizures were excluded from clinical studies. Seizures were reported in one patient during pre-marketing evaluation of levomilnacipran.
    Headline
    hypovolemia
    General Information
    Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), including levomilnacipran, are associated with significant hyponatremia resulting from the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Older adults, people taking diuretics, and those who have hypovolemia appear to be at greatest risk. Hyponatremia during SNRI use has resulted in serum sodium levels less than 110 mmol/L in some cases. However, the adverse effect appears reversible upon discontinuation of the causative SNRI. Symptomatic hyponatremia may require discontinuation of levomilnacipran, as well as implementation of appropriate medical interventions.
    Headline
    closed-angle glaucoma, narrow iridocorneal angles
    General Information
    The pupillary dilation that can occur with many antidepressants, including levomilnacipran, may precipitate a closed-angle glaucoma attack in individuals with anatomically narrow iridocorneal angles who do not have a patent iridectomy. Avoid use of antidepressants, including levomilnacipran, in individuals with anatomically narrow iridocorneal angles.
    Headline
    urinary tract obstruction
    General Information
    Use caution when administering levomilnacipran to people who are prone to disorders associated with urinary tract obstruction. The noradrenergic effect of serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) can affect urethral resistance. Symptoms of urinary hesitancy, urinary retention, or dysuria which develop during treatment with levomilnacipran may be a drug-related event, and discontinuation or other appropriate medical intervention should be considered.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Renal excretion is a major route of elimination of levomilnacipran. Dosage adjustments are recommended in people with moderate (CrCl: 30 to 59 mL/minute) or severe (CrCl: 15 to 29 mL/minute) renal impairment. Levomilnacipran is not recommended in people with end-stage renal disease (e.g., renal failure).
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, ethanol ingestion
    General Information
    Levomilnacipran has the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should use caution when driving or operating machinery or participating in other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they are reasonably certain that levomilnacipran therapy does not affect them adversely. Patients should also be advised to avoid alcohol during levomilnacipran therapy, as ethanol ingestion with the extended-release formulation can increase the rate of release, leading to adverse effects.
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero during the third trimester may experience poor neonatal adaptation, resulting in complications such as prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding upon delivery. Symptoms of poor neonatal adaptation include respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, seizures, temperature instability, feeding difficulty, vomiting, hypoglycemia, hypotonia, hypertonia, hyperreflexia, tremor, jitteriness, irritability, and constant crying. These features are consistent with direct SNRI toxicity, serotonin syndrome, and/or drug discontinuation syndrome.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    An age-related decline in renal function may reduce levomilnacipran clearance, and renal function should be assessed before determining dosage. Geriatric adults have an increased risk of developing clinically significant hyponatremia, a known side effect of serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). The Beers Criteria state that SNRIs are potentially inappropriate medications in older adults with a history of falls or fractures; SNRIs can produce ataxia, impaired psychomotor function, syncope, and additional falls. If an SNRI must be used, consider reducing the use of other CNS-active medications and implement strategies to reduce fall risk. SNRIs may also cause hyponatremia and SIADH; closely monitor sodium concentrations when initiating treatment or changing doses in older adults. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates antidepressant use in long-term care facilities. When used to manage behavior, stabilize mood, or treat a psychiatric disorder, tapering as outlined in the OBRA guidelines should be attempted unless clinically contraindicated. Dosages and durations of treatment used should align with prescribing labels, published literature recommendations, and expert guidelines.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use levomilnacipran with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known if levomilnacipran is excreted into human milk; however, racemic milnacipran is present in human milk. There are reports of agitation, irritability, poor feeding, and poor weight gain in infants after exposure to serotonergic antidepressants through human milk. Advise breast-feeding individuals to monitor infants for sedation, agitation, irritability, poor feeding, and poor weight gain, and to contact their care team if the infant or child develops these symptoms. Due to individual variability in response to antidepressants, it may be prudent to continue the existing regimen during lactation rather than switch to an alternative. One pooled analysis found that maternal use of sertraline, nortriptyline, or paroxetine usually produced undetectable or low drug concentrations in infant serum and, therefore, may be the preferred antidepressants in breast-feeding individuals. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for levomilnacipran, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition.
    Headline
    obstetric delivery, pregnancy
    General Information
    Data are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes with levomilnacipran use during pregnancy. No fetal malformations were observed in animal studies (rats or rabbits) during organogenesis at oral doses up to 100 mg/kg/day. This dose is 8 and 16 times (in rats and rabbits, respectively) the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 120 mg on a mg/m2 basis. There are risks associated with untreated depression in pregnancy and with exposure to serotonergic antidepressants. Data from observational studies report that exposure to SNRIs, particularly in the month before obstetric delivery, is associated with a less than 2-fold increase in the risk of postpartum hemorrhage. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes from exposure to levomilnacipran during pregnancy; enrollment is voluntary and may be initiated by pregnant patients or their health care team. Information about the registry can be obtained at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants or by calling 1-844-405-6185.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Data are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes with levomilnacipran use during pregnancy. No fetal malformations were observed in animal studies (rats or rabbits) during organogenesis at oral doses up to 100 mg/kg/day. This dose is 8 and 16 times (in rats and rabbits, respectively) the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 120 mg on a mg/m2 basis. There are risks associated with untreated depression in pregnancy and with exposure to serotonergic antidepressants. Data from observational studies report that exposure to SNRIs, particularly in the month before obstetric delivery, is associated with a less than 2-fold increase in the risk of postpartum hemorrhage. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes from exposure to levomilnacipran during pregnancy; enrollment is voluntary and may be initiated by pregnant patients or their health care team. Information about the registry can be obtained at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants or by calling 1-844-405-6185.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of dihydrocodeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Adagrasib: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with adagrasib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase levomilnacipran exposure. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) If concomitant use of alfentanil and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with an SNRI.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, the tricyclic antidepressant and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like antithrombin III. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Apixaban: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if levomilnacipran and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in levomilnacipran-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of levomilnacipran. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Argatroban: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like argatroban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Due to the effects of levomilnacipran on noradrenergic pathways, paroxysmal hypertension and arrhythmias may occur during concurrent use of epinephrine.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Levomilnacipran is a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) and atomoxetine selectively inhibits norepinephrine reuptake; the drugs have some additive pharmacology that may lead to increases in blood pressure or heart rate.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Careful monitoring, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment, is recommended during coadministration of benzhydrocodone and levomilnacipran because of the potential risk of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue benzhydrocodone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) (e.g., venlafaxine, duloxetine, desvenlafaxine, milnacipran) should generally be avoided due to the potential for serotonin syndrome. Results from an in vitro study indicate that methylene blue is a potent, reversible inhibitor of the monoamine oxidase type A enzyme (MAO-A). MAO-A is responsible for the metabolism of serotonin; therefore, concurrent use of an MAO-A inhibitor with serotonergic agents such as SNRIs may result in a clinically significant interaction. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, SNRIs, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. One case report suggests that serotonin toxicity may have occurred post-operatively following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue in a patient receiving duloxetine. The patient experienced disorientation, a mildly elevated temperature, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, mild agitation, and nystagmus. In a separate case, a patient who had been receiving venlafaxine developed expressive aphasia, confusion, and disinhibition following a methylene blue infusion. The authors concluded that methylene blue toxicity had occurred; however, they did not exclude the possibility of a drug interaction based upon previous reports of an interaction between injectable methylene blue and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include fever, diaphoresis, shivering, myoclonus, tremor, tachycardia, diarrhea, nausea, headache, incoordination, mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion), hyperreflexia, seizures, and coma. If emergent treatment with methylene blue is required in a patient receiving an SNRI, the SNRI must be stopped immediately and the patient should be monitored for symptoms of CNS toxicity for two weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. During non-emergent use of methylene blue, the SNRI should be stopped at least 2 weeks prior to methylene blue treatment, but also taking into consideration the half-life of the SNRI being discontinued. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like bivalirudin. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Due to the effects of levomilnacipran on noradrenergic pathways, paroxysmal hypertension and arrhythmias may occur during concurrent use of epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Coadministration of buspirone with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Both types of medications have serotonergic properties. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tramadol and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for seizures and the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. Concomitant use of tramadol and levomilnacipran may increase seizure risk. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Ceritinib: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with ceritinib is necessary. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Chloramphenicol is considered a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, the tricyclic antidepressant and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued. (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Citalopram: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, concurrent use of levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), should generally be avoided. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, levomilnacipran and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Clarithromycin: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, the tricyclic antidepressant and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Because levomilnacipran inhibits norepinephrine reuptake, coadministration with clonidine may inhibit clonidine's antihypertensive effect.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Cobicistat: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Cocaine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reactions, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as cocaine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reactions.
Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Major) Cautious use of cyclobenzaprine and drugs that increase serotonin concentrations such as serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) is advised because of the possibility of serotonin syndrome. If these drugs must be used together, closely monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome. If such a reaction develops, immediately discontinue cyclobenzaprine and the SSRI. A suspected case of serotonin syndrome was noted in a man who took duloxetine, opiates, and cyclobenzaprine. The man developed worsening confusion, hallucinations, diaphoresis, tachycardia, tremors, marked agitation, spontaneous sustained clonus, and multifocal myoclonus, but recovered after duloxetine and cyclobenzaprine discontinuation and cyproheptadine initiation.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like dabigatran. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like dalteparin. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Desipramine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, the tricyclic antidepressant and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Desvenlafaxine: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, coadministration of desvenlafaxine and levomilnacipran should be avoided. Also, because both desvenlafaxine and levomilnacipran are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), coadministration is considered duplicative therapy. It is advisable to monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome during an overlapping transition from one SNRI to another SNRI.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. There is also a case of a neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reaction occurring in a child on chronic methylphenidate therapy after ingesting methylphenidate with an SNRI. It is unclear if the reaction was the result of a drug interaction. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Digoxin: (Major) Postural hypotension and tachycardia may occur during concurrent use of intravenous digoxin and milnacipran, a racemic mixture containing levomilnacipran. Because the manufacturer of milnacipran recommends against use of milnacipran and intravenous digoxin, use of levomilnacipran with intravenous digoxin should be approached with extreme caution.
Dihydroergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Doxepin: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, the tricyclic antidepressant and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
DULoxetine: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, coadministration of levomilnacipran and duloxetine should be avoided. Also, because both levomilnacipran and duloxetine are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), coadministration is considered duplicative therapy. It is advisable to monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome during an overlapping transition from one SNRI to another SNRI.
Edoxaban: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like edoxaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering levomilnacipran with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated levomilnacipran plasma concentrations. Levomilnacipran is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Enoxaparin: (Major) Whenever possible, discontinue agents which may enhance the risk of hemorrhage, including serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), before initiation of enoxaparin therapy. If coadministration is essential, conduct close clinical and laboratory monitoring.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase levomilnacipran exposure. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
EPINEPHrine: (Major) Due to the effects of levomilnacipran on noradrenergic pathways, paroxysmal hypertension and arrhythmias may occur during concurrent use of epinephrine.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Ergoloid Mesylates: (Minor) Monitor for symptoms of serotonergic toxicity during concomitant use of ergoloid mesylates (co-dergocrine mesylate) and a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. Serotonin receptor agonist and antagonist activity has been observed with ergoloid mesylates. Concomitant use may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome in some patients.
Ergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Escitalopram: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, concurrent use of levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), should generally be avoided. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, levomilnacipran and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Ethanol: (Major) Alcohol use should be avoided during treatment with levomilnacipran. Use of alcohol while taking levomilnacipran can cause levomilnacipran to enter the bloodstream too quickly, which may cause serious side effects.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) If concomitant use of fentanyl and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, concurrent use of levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), should generally be avoided. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, levomilnacipran and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, concurrent use of levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), should generally be avoided. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, levomilnacipran and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like fondaparinux. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Amprenavir and fosamprenavir are considered strong inhibitors of CYP3A4. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Frovatriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and levomilnacipran is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Granisetron: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering granisetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as levomilnacipran. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue granisetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Heparin: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like heparin. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydromorphone and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) (e.g., venlafaxine, duloxetine, desvenlafaxine, milnacipran) should generally be avoided due to the potential for serotonin syndrome. Results from an in vitro study indicate that methylene blue is a potent, reversible inhibitor of the monoamine oxidase type A enzyme (MAO-A). MAO-A is responsible for the metabolism of serotonin; therefore, concurrent use of an MAO-A inhibitor with serotonergic agents such as SNRIs may result in a clinically significant interaction. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, SNRIs, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. One case report suggests that serotonin toxicity may have occurred post-operatively following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue in a patient receiving duloxetine. The patient experienced disorientation, a mildly elevated temperature, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, mild agitation, and nystagmus. In a separate case, a patient who had been receiving venlafaxine developed expressive aphasia, confusion, and disinhibition following a methylene blue infusion. The authors concluded that methylene blue toxicity had occurred; however, they did not exclude the possibility of a drug interaction based upon previous reports of an interaction between injectable methylene blue and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include fever, diaphoresis, shivering, myoclonus, tremor, tachycardia, diarrhea, nausea, headache, incoordination, mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion), hyperreflexia, seizures, and coma. If emergent treatment with methylene blue is required in a patient receiving an SNRI, the SNRI must be stopped immediately and the patient should be monitored for symptoms of CNS toxicity for two weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. During non-emergent use of methylene blue, the SNRI should be stopped at least 2 weeks prior to methylene blue treatment, but also taking into consideration the half-life of the SNRI being discontinued. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Imipramine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, the tricyclic antidepressant and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with levomilnacipran may result in increased serum concentrations of levomilnacipran. Levomilnacipran is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat psychiatric disorders are contraindicated for use with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). MAOIs should not be used within 5 days of discontinuing treatment with duloxetine or milnacipran or within 7 days of discontinuing treatment with other SNRIs. Conversely, SNRIs should not be initiated within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. Monitor the patient for serotonin-related effects during therapy transitions.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, concurrent use of levomilnacipran and medications with MAO-like activity, such as isoniazid, INH, should be approached with caution. Isoniazid is chemically related to iproniazid, a drug that was known to possess MAO inhibiting activity. Although isoniazid does not inhibit mitochondrial MAO, it does appear to inhibit plasma MAO and may possess enough MAO inhibiting activity to produce clinical symptoms consistent with serotonergic excess when combined with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). If serotonin syndrome is suspected, levomilnacipran and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Itraconazole: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Itraconazole is considered a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase levomilnacipran exposure. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Administering letermovir with levomilnacipran may increase levomilnacipran concentration and risk for adverse events. Do not exceed a levomilnacipran adult dose of 80 mg per day in patients also receiving cyclosporine because the magnitude of this interaction may be increased. Levomilnacipran is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase levomilnacipran exposure. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of levorphanol and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Due to the effects of levomilnacipran on noradrenergic pathways, paroxysmal hypertension and arrhythmias may occur during concurrent use of epinephrine.
Linezolid: (Contraindicated) The use of linezolid with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as levomilnacipran is contraindicated due to the potential for serotonin syndrome. Linezolid is an antibiotic that also possesses weak non-selective MAO-inhibiting activity which could have additive effects with SNRIs on central serotonin activity. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. In a patient who requires urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, interventions other than an SNRI, including hospitalization, should be considered. In some cases, a patient already receiving levomilnacipran may require urgent treatment with linezolid. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid are determined to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in an individual patient, levomilnacipran should be stopped promptly, and linezolid can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 2 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid, whichever comes first. Therapy with levomilnacipran may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation or dosage increase, during concomitant lisdexamfetamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk of serotonin syndrome.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Lithium: (Major) Lithium is an effective augmenting agent to antidepressants in treatment-resistant depression; however, lithium has been reported to have central serotonin-enhancing effects and may interact pharmacodynamically with levomilnacipran to cause serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Patients should be informed of the possible increased risk of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, levomilnacipran and lithium should be discontinued and symptomatic treatment should be initiated. One systematic review and meta-analysis of lithium augmentation of tricyclic and second generation antidepressants in major depression found no difference in discontinuation rate due to adverse events between the lithium and placebo groups. However, some data indicate that the elderly may have increased susceptibility to neurotoxicity (e.g., fine tremor, ataxia, severe memory impairment, and/or gait disturbances) from concurrent use of lithium and antidepressants, despite therapeutic lithium concentrations.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase levomilnacipran exposure. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ritonavir. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention. Additionally, ritonavir could further increase levomilnacipran concentrations by inhibiting its P-glycoprotein (P-gp) metabolism.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects suggestive of serotonin excess, such as serotonin syndrome and hyponatremia, during concomitant use of a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor and lumateperone. Both medications affect the serotonin transporter and concomitant use may increase the risk for adverse effects.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Meperidine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of meperidine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Methadone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of methadone and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) (e.g., venlafaxine, duloxetine, desvenlafaxine, milnacipran) should generally be avoided due to the potential for serotonin syndrome. Results from an in vitro study indicate that methylene blue is a potent, reversible inhibitor of the monoamine oxidase type A enzyme (MAO-A). MAO-A is responsible for the metabolism of serotonin; therefore, concurrent use of an MAO-A inhibitor with serotonergic agents such as SNRIs may result in a clinically significant interaction. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, SNRIs, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. One case report suggests that serotonin toxicity may have occurred post-operatively following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue in a patient receiving duloxetine. The patient experienced disorientation, a mildly elevated temperature, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, mild agitation, and nystagmus. In a separate case, a patient who had been receiving venlafaxine developed expressive aphasia, confusion, and disinhibition following a methylene blue infusion. The authors concluded that methylene blue toxicity had occurred; however, they did not exclude the possibility of a drug interaction based upon previous reports of an interaction between injectable methylene blue and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include fever, diaphoresis, shivering, myoclonus, tremor, tachycardia, diarrhea, nausea, headache, incoordination, mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion), hyperreflexia, seizures, and coma. If emergent treatment with methylene blue is required in a patient receiving an SNRI, the SNRI must be stopped immediately and the patient should be monitored for symptoms of CNS toxicity for two weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. During non-emergent use of methylene blue, the SNRI should be stopped at least 2 weeks prior to methylene blue treatment, but also taking into consideration the half-life of the SNRI being discontinued.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Methylene Blue: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) (e.g., venlafaxine, duloxetine, desvenlafaxine, milnacipran) should generally be avoided due to the potential for serotonin syndrome. Results from an in vitro study indicate that methylene blue is a potent, reversible inhibitor of the monoamine oxidase type A enzyme (MAO-A). MAO-A is responsible for the metabolism of serotonin; therefore, concurrent use of an MAO-A inhibitor with serotonergic agents such as SNRIs may result in a clinically significant interaction. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, SNRIs, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. One case report suggests that serotonin toxicity may have occurred post-operatively following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue in a patient receiving duloxetine. The patient experienced disorientation, a mildly elevated temperature, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, mild agitation, and nystagmus. In a separate case, a patient who had been receiving venlafaxine developed expressive aphasia, confusion, and disinhibition following a methylene blue infusion. The authors concluded that methylene blue toxicity had occurred; however, they did not exclude the possibility of a drug interaction based upon previous reports of an interaction between injectable methylene blue and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include fever, diaphoresis, shivering, myoclonus, tremor, tachycardia, diarrhea, nausea, headache, incoordination, mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion), hyperreflexia, seizures, and coma. If emergent treatment with methylene blue is required in a patient receiving an SNRI, the SNRI must be stopped immediately and the patient should be monitored for symptoms of CNS toxicity for two weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. During non-emergent use of methylene blue, the SNRI should be stopped at least 2 weeks prior to methylene blue treatment, but also taking into consideration the half-life of the SNRI being discontinued.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. There is also a case of a neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reaction occurring in a child on chronic methylphenidate therapy after ingesting methylphenidate with an SNRI. It is unclear if the reaction was the result of a drug interaction. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. There is also a case of a neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reaction occurring in a child on chronic methylphenidate therapy after ingesting methylphenidate with an SNRI. It is unclear if the reaction was the result of a drug interaction. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metoclopramide and serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary. In rare cases postmarketing, NMS-like symptoms, which may overlap with serotonin syndrome symptoms, have been reported with metoclopramide when used with serotonergic agents.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Milnacipran: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, coadministration of levomilnacipran and milnacipran should be avoided. Also, because levomilnacipran is an isomer of milnacipran and both agents are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), coadministration is considered duplicative therapy. It is advisable to monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome during an overlapping transition from one SNRI to another SNRI.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when coadministering drugs that have serotonergic properties such as mirtazapine and levomilnacipran. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported between mirtazapine and other antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat psychiatric disorders are contraindicated for use with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). MAOIs should not be used within 5 days of discontinuing treatment with duloxetine or milnacipran or within 7 days of discontinuing treatment with other SNRIs. Conversely, SNRIs should not be initiated within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. Monitor the patient for serotonin-related effects during therapy transitions.
Morphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of morphine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of nalbuphine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Naratriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Nefazodone: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reactions, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as nefazodone. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reactions.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as levomilnacipran. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and levomilnacipran and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ritonavir. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention. Additionally, ritonavir could further increase levomilnacipran concentrations by inhibiting its P-glycoprotein (P-gp) metabolism.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Due to the effects of levomilnacipran on noradrenergic pathways, paroxysmal hypertension and arrhythmias may occur during concurrent use of norepinephrine.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, the tricyclic antidepressant and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, concurrent use of levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), should generally be avoided. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, levomilnacipran and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Ondansetron: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering ondansetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as levomilnacipran. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue ondansetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxymorphone and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Palonosetron: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as levomilnacipran. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and levomilnacipran and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
PARoxetine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, concurrent use of levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), should generally be avoided. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, levomilnacipran and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reactions, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as pentazocine. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reactions.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, the tricyclic antidepressant and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat psychiatric disorders are contraindicated for use with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). MAOIs should not be used within 5 days of discontinuing treatment with duloxetine or milnacipran or within 7 days of discontinuing treatment with other SNRIs. Conversely, SNRIs should not be initiated within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. Monitor the patient for serotonin-related effects during therapy transitions.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Use phentermine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) together with caution due to a potential for serotonin syndrome. Monitor weight, cardiovascular status, and for potential serotonergic adverse effects. Phentermine is related to the amphetamines, and there has been historical concern that phentermine might exhibit potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with serotonergic agents. However, recent data suggest that phentermine's effect on MAO inhibition and serotonin augmentation is minimal at therapeutic doses and some large controlled clinical studies have allowed patients to start phentermine-based therapy for obesity along with their SNRI as long as the antidepressant dose had been stable for at least 3 months prior. Such therapy was generally well-tolerated, especially at lower phentermine doses. Because depression and obesity often coexist, the study data may be important to providing optimal co-therapies.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Platelet Inhibitors: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Posaconazole: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Posaconazole is considered a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Due to the effects of levomilnacipran on noradrenergic pathways, paroxysmal hypertension and arrhythmias may occur during concurrent use of epinephrine.
Procarbazine: (Major) Concurrent use of procarbazine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) should be avoided if possible. Procarbazine is a weak monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI). Since monoamine oxidase type A deaminates serotonin, administration of a non-selective MAO inhibitor concurrently with an SNRI can lead to serious reactions including serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reactions. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If combination therapy is necessary, patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reactions.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dextromethorphan with levomilnacipran. Dextromethorphan has serotonergic activity. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Protriptyline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, the tricyclic antidepressant and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Rasagiline: (Major) It is recommended to avoid concurrent use of rasagiline and antidepressants, including serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Severe CNS toxicity with hyperpyrexia has been reported during concurrent use of antidepressants and selective or non-selective MAOIs. During post-marketing use of rasagiline, non-fatal cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during concomitant antidepressant administration. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. At least 2 weeks should elapse between stopping rasagiline treatment and beginning therapy with any antidepressant. Conversely, when discontinuing the antidepressant, it is advisable to wait the length of 4 to 5 half lives of the individual agent being discontinued prior to initiation with rasagiline.
Relacorilant: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with relacorilant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase levomilnacipran exposure. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) If concomitant use of remifentanil and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with an SNRI.
Ribociclib: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Ritonavir: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ritonavir. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention. Additionally, ritonavir could further increase levomilnacipran concentrations by inhibiting its P-glycoprotein (P-gp) metabolism.
Rivaroxaban: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like rivaroxaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of an SNRI.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, concurrent use of levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), should generally be avoided. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, levomilnacipran and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) are contraindicated for use with selegiline, a selective monoamine oxidase type B inhibitor (MAO-B inhibitor). At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of selegiline and initiation of treatment with an SNRI. After stopping treatment with an SNRI, a time period equal to 4 to 5 half-lives of the SNRI or any active metabolite should elapse before starting therapy with selegiline. Serotonin syndrome has occurred in patients receiving selective MAO-B inhibitors and serotonin-augmenting antidepressants simultaneously. Monitor for serotonergic side effects during therapy transitions.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Caution should be observed when coadministering methylphenidate derivatives and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). There are postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives with other serotonergic medications. There is also a case of a neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like reaction occurring in a child on chronic methylphenidate therapy after ingesting methylphenidate with an SNRI. It is unclear if the reaction was the result of a drug interaction. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical management should be implemented.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Sertraline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, concurrent use of levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), should generally be avoided. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, levomilnacipran and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and antidepressants that are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when coadministering St. John's wort and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Inform the patient of the increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly at treatment initiation or with dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) If concomitant use of sufentanil and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
SUMAtriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tapentadol and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with an SNRI.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with an SNRI.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Tipranavir: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Tipranavir is considered a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by SNRIs such as levomilnacipran due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding in patients taking levomilnacipran and NSAIDs.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
traMADol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tramadol and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for seizures and the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. Concomitant use of tramadol and levomilnacipran may increase seizure risk. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tramadol and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for seizures and the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. Concomitant use of tramadol and levomilnacipran may increase seizure risk. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat psychiatric disorders are contraindicated for use with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). MAOIs should not be used within 5 days of discontinuing treatment with duloxetine or milnacipran or within 7 days of discontinuing treatment with other SNRIs. Conversely, SNRIs should not be initiated within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. Monitor the patient for serotonin-related effects during therapy transitions.
traZODone: (Moderate) Coadministration of trazodone and levomilnacipran may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome has been reported with both drugs when taken alone, but especially when coadministered with other serotonergic agents. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue levomilnacipran and trazodone and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, the tricyclic antidepressant and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Trimipramine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tricyclic antidepressants. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, the tricyclic antidepressant and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Tryptophan, 5-Hydroxytryptophan: (Major) Concurrent use of tryptophan and levomilnacipran is not recommended. Since tryptophan is converted to serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine), its use in patients receiving levomilnacipran could lead to serotonin excess and serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, levomilnacipran and other serotonergic agents should be discontinued and the appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Tucatinib: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with tucatinib is necessary. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, coadministration of venlafaxine and levomilnacipran should be avoided. Also, because both venlafaxine and levomilnacipran are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), coadministration is considered duplicative therapy. It is advisable to monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome during an overlapping transition from one SNRI to another SNRI.
Vilazodone: (Major) Due to possible additive effects on serotonin concentrations, it is advisable to avoid combining serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) with vilazodone. Interactions between vilazodone and serotonergic agents can lead to serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Patients receiving vilazodone and an SNRI should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and during dosage increases. Vilazodone and the SNRI should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) The adult dose of levomilnacipran should not exceed 80 mg/day during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and decreased metabolism of the drug can lead to an increased risk of adverse effects such as urinary retention.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Voriconazole: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with voriconazole is necessary. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Due to similarity of pharmacology and the potential for additive adverse effects, including serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine should generally not be administered with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as venlafaxine, desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, and milnacipran. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, vortioxetine and concurrent serotonergic agents should be discontinued.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of levomilnacipran and warfarin. Carefully monitor patients receiving warfarin therapy if levomilnacipran is initiated or discontinued. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
ZOLMitriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Disorientation, delusions, or hallucinations have been reported rarely during co-administration of zolpidem and some SNRI antidepressants. The duration of the visual hallucinations has ranged from 30 minutes to 7 hours. The interaction is thought to be pharmacodynamic in nature; therefore, a similar reaction is possible with levomilnacipran. Data from a clinical study in which SSRI-treated patients were given immediate-release zolpidem revealed that four of the seven discontinuations during double-blind treatment with zolpidem (n = 95) were associated with impaired concentration, continuing or aggravated depression, and manic reaction.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, elevated hepatic enzymes, flatulence, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal complaints are relatively common during treatment with SNRIs. In clinical trials of levomilnacipran for major depressive disorder in adults, the following gastrointestinal effects occurred in at least 2% of levomilnacipran-treated patients and at a rate at least twice that of placebo: nausea (17% vs 6%), constipation (9% vs 3%), vomiting (5% vs 1%), and anorexia (decreased appetite 3% vs 1%). GI effects occurring in less than 2% of patients treated with levomilnacipran included abdominal pain, flatulence, and elevated hepatic enzymes. The most common adverse reaction leading to discontinuation in at least 1% of the levomilnacipran-treated patients was nausea (1.5%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angina, cardiomyopathy, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    In clinical trials of levomilnacipran for major depressive disorder in adults, the following adverse cardiac effects occurred in at least 2% of levomilnacipran-treated patients and at a rate at least twice that of placebo: sinus tachycardia, including postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (6%), palpitations (5%), hypotension, including orthostatic hypotension or postural dizziness (3%), hypertension (3%), increased heart rate, including orthostatic heart rate response (6%), and increased blood pressure, including orthostatic blood pressure response (3%). Cardiac effects occurring in less than 2% of patients treated with levomilnacipran included angina, supraventricular extrasystoles, and ventricular extrasystoles. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy has been reported during postmarketing experience. During short-term use, the following mean changes were reported in blood pressure for levomilnacipran vs placebo: systolic blood pressure (+3 mm Hg vs. -0.4 mm Hg), and diastolic blood pressure (+3.2 mm Hg vs. 0 mmHg). Sustained hypertension was reported in up to 1.8% of patients receiving levomilnacipran and up to 1.2% of patients receiving placebo. Upward shifts in blood pressure from normal (less than 120/80 mmHg) to pre-hypertension occurred in 10.4% of patients in the active treatment group and 7.1% of patients in the placebo group. During long-term use, the mean changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure were +3.9 mmHg and +3.1 mmHg, respectively. Orthostatic hypotension occurred more frequently with levomilnacipran (11.6%) than with placebo. In short-term clinical trials, the mean increase in heart rate was higher in the levomilnacipran group than the placebo group: +7.4 bpm vs +0.3 bpm. Levomilnacipran does not produce a clinically relevant prolongation of the QTc at 2.5 times the maximum recommended dose.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cardiomyopathy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dysuria, ejaculation dysfunction, hematuria, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, proteinuria, testicular pain, urinary retention
    General Information
    Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) like levomilnacipran are known to affect urethral resistance. Some cases of dysuria and urinary retention with other SNRIs have required hospitalization and/or catheterization. In clinical trials of levomilnacipran for major depressive disorder in adults, the following genitourinary (GU) effects occurred in at least 2% of levomilnacipran-treated patients and at a rate that was at least twice that of placebo: urinary hesitancy (4%), impotence (erectile dysfunction) (6%), testicular pain (4%), and ejaculation dysfunction (5%). Urinary hesitation and erectile dysfunction were dose-related effects. Urinary hesitation and erectile dysfunction occurred in 6% and 10%, respectively, of patients receiving levomilnacipran at maximum daily doses. GU effects occurring in less than 2% of levomilnacipran recipients included pollakiuria (increased urinary frequency), hematuria, and proteinuria. Sexual dysfunction and reproductive system disorders are common adverse effects associated with serotonergic agents, but may be underreported as patients may be hesitant to discuss this topic. Prescribers should discuss sexual function prior to initiating treatment with levomilnacipran and throughout treatment and obtain a detailed history and timeline of any changes in sexual function to determine whether the changes are medication-related or may be attributed to the underlying psychiatric disorder. Clinicians should also discuss management strategies and treatment options with patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      testicular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ejaculation dysfunction
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    erythema multiforme, hot flashes, hyperhidrosis, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, xerosis
    General Information
    In clinical trials of levomilnacipran for major depressive disorder in adults, the following adverse dermatologic effects occurred in at least 2% of levomilnacipran-treated patients and at a rate that was at least twice that of placebo: hyperhidrosis (9% vs 2%), rash (unspecified) or maculopapular rash, erythematous rash, or macular rash (2% vs 0%), and hot flashes (3% vs 1%). Dermatologic effects occurring in less than 2% of patients treated with levomilnacipran included xerosis, pruritus, and urticaria. Severe cutaneous reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme have been reported during treatment with other serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, and are potential side effects of levomilnacipran.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    blurred vision, mydriasis, ocular hemorrhage, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    In clinical trials of levomilnacipran for major depressive disorder in adults, the following ophthalmic effects occurred in less than 2% of patients treated with levomilnacipran: xerophthalmia, blurred vision, and ocular hemorrhage (conjunctival hemorrhage). Because mydriasis has been associated with use of SNRIs, including levomilnacipran, caution is advisable in patients who have increased intraocular pressure (ocular hypertension) or glaucoma.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mydriasis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anosmia, dizziness, dyskinesia, migraine, paresthesias, seizures, syncope, yawning
    General Information
    In clinical trials of levomilnacipran for major depressive disorder in adults, the following central nervous system (CNS) effects occurred in less than 2% of patients treated with levomilnacipran: migraine, paresthesias, syncope, yawning, and extrapyramidal disorder (e.g., dyskinesia). Seizures were reported in one patient during premarketing evaluation. Levomilnacipran, like other CNS-active drugs, has the potential to cause dizziness. Anosmia and hyposmia have been reported with postmarketing use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      yawning
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      anosmia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), polydipsia
    General Information
    In clinical trials of levomilnacipran for major depressive disorder in adults, the following general effects occurred in less than 2% of patients treated with levomilnacipran: chest pain (unspecified), thirst (polydipsia), and increased cholesterol levels.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polydipsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    agitation, hostility, mania, teeth grinding (bruxism)
    General Information
    Psychiatric symptoms reported in less than 2% of levomilnacipran-treated patients during premarketing evaluation included agitation, anger (hostility), teeth grinding (bruxism), panic attack, tension, and aggression. Antidepressants can precipitate hypomania or mania in predisposed individuals; mania/hypomania occurred in 0.2% of both levomilnacipran-treated and placebo-treated patients during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hostility
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      teeth grinding (bruxism)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Monitor all antidepressant-treated patients for any indication for worsening of depression or the condition being treated and the emergence of suicidal behaviors or suicidal ideation, especially during the initial few months of drug therapy and after dosage changes. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials of antidepressants (n = 4,500 pediatrics and 77,000 adults), there was an increased risk for suicidal thoughts and behaviors in patients 24 years of age and younger receiving an antidepressant versus placebo, with considerable variation in the risk of suicidality among drugs. The difference in the absolute risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across different indications was highest in those with major depression. No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. These studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior with antidepressant use in patients over 24 years of age; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressant use in patients aged 65 and older. Caregivers and/or patients should immediately notify the prescriber of changes in behavior or suicidal ideation during treatment with levomilnacipran.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    serotonin syndrome
    General Information
    Serotonin syndrome has been reported during use of SNRIs such as levomilnacipram alone, during concurrent use of other medications which increase serotonin levels, or during SNRI overdose. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperpyrexia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). If serotonin syndrome becomes evident during treatment, levomilnacipran and any other serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      serotonin syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hyponatremia, SIADH
    General Information
    Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), like levomilnacipran, may cause hyponatremia, which is frequently the result of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). In some cases, serum sodium levels less than 110 mmol/L have been reported; however, the adverse effect appeared reversible upon discontinuation of the causative SNRI. Elderly patients, those receiving diuretics or prone to becoming dehydrated, and those who are otherwise volume depleted (e.g., hypovolemia) appear to be at greatest risk. Hyponatremia may manifest as headache, difficulty concentrating, memory impairment, confusion, weakness, and unsteadiness which may result in falls. Severe manifestations include hallucinations, fainting, seizure, coma, respiratory arrest, and death. Symptomatic hyponatremia may require discontinuation of the SNRI, as well as implementation of the appropriate medical interventions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      SIADH
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, GI bleeding, hematoma, petechiae, platelet dysfunction
    General Information
    Platelet dysfunction (i.e., impaired platelet aggregation) may occur during treatment with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, hematoma, petechiae, hemorrhage). GI bleeding has been reported during use of other SNRIs and is considered a potential effect of levomilnacipran. An increased risk of bleeding complications is possible in patients receiving antiplatelet or anticoagulant medications concurrently with levomilnacipran.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      petechiae
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      platelet dysfunction
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    withdrawal
    General Information
    Adverse effects have been reported following discontinuation of antidepressants, and may be particularly evident during abrupt discontinuation of agents with a short half-life and no active metabolites. Adverse effects may include agitation, anorexia, anxiety, confusion, coordination impaired, diarrhea, dizziness, dry mouth, dysphoric mood, fasciculation, fatigue, flu-like symptoms, headaches, hypomania, insomnia, nausea, nervousness, nightmares, sensory disturbances (including shock-like electrical sensations), somnolence, sweating, tremor, vertigo, vomiting, or other adverse effects that are similar to withdrawal reactions. If intolerable symptoms occur during a dose decrease or upon discontinuation of levomilnacipran, consider resuming the previous dose and proceeding with a more gradual taper.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    neonatal abstinence syndrome
    General Information
    A neonatal abstinence syndrome has been reported in infants exposed to serotonergic agents in utero. After birth, symptoms consistent with a discontinuation syndrome (i.e., poor feeding, hypoglycemia, hypothermia, lethargy or irritability, vomiting, etc.) were noted. Such complications can arise immediately upon delivery. Other symptoms have included respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, seizures, temperature instability, feeding difficulty, hypotonia, hypertonia, hyperreflexia, tremor, jitteriness, and constant crying. Serum concentrations of the serotonergic agent were measurable in the infants affected. Several other symptoms (bloody stools, necrotizing enterocolitis) may have been attributable to rebound platelet activation after cessation of exposure to the drug. Neonatal symptoms generally improved over several days. Complications have included respiratory distress, hypoglycemia, prematurity, and jaundice. The features are consistent with either a direct toxic effect of serotonergic agents, or, possibly, a drug discontinuation syndrome. It should be noted that, in some cases, the clinical picture is consistent with serotonin syndrome. When treating a pregnant woman with a serotonergic agent such as levomilnacipran during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment. If clinically feasible, and taking the drug half-life into consideration, tapering of the serotonergic agent prior to delivery may be considered as an alternative..
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neonatal abstinence syndrome
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Levomilnacipran is a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) used for the treatment of major depressive disorder in adults. SNRIs are not approved in pediatric patients with depression; however, the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) guidelines recommend antidepressants when nonpharmacologic treatment is insufficient or illness severity is high. Due to limited data in treating pediatric depression, SNRIs are generally reserved for pediatric patients with documented antidepressant treatment failure or intolerability to a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Levomilnacipran is an enantiomer of milnacipran, an SNRI indicated for the treatment of fibromyalgia. Unlike milnacipran, the safety and efficacy of levomilnacipran in the management of fibromyalgia have not been established. Similar to other SNRIs, levomilnacipran has been associated with increases in blood pressure and heart rate; therefore, caution is recommended in patients with hypertension or other conditions that may be adversely affected by increased blood pressure or heart rate. While levomilnacipran has been studied in pediatric patients, safety and efficacy have not been established; levomilnacipran was not more efficacious than placebo in 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo and active-controlled 8 week trials of pediatric patients (7 to 17 years of age) with major depressive disorder. Commonly observed adverse reactions in pediatric patients were similar to those observed in adults except for hypertension; a higher proportion of pediatric patients developed new-onset and sustained hypertension when compared to adult trials. Product labels for all antidepressants contain a boxed warning related to an increased risk of suicidality in children, adolescents, and young adults during the initial stages of therapy when treating depression or other conditions; therefore, the necessity of pharmacologic therapy versus the potential risks should be carefully considered in these populations.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Levomilnacipran is a potent and selective serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) antidepressant thought to exert its therapeutic effects in part by inhibiting the central reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine. Because of the delay in therapeutic response, it is theorized that long-term neurotransmitter receptor modulation is an important mechanism of effect. All SNRIs inhibit serotonin uptake in human platelets, which has been associated with an increased risk of bleeding events. In addition, SNRIs can increase blood pressure and heart rate; cases of elevated blood pressure requiring immediate treatment have been reported. Levomilnacipran does not possess monoamine oxidase inhibiting activity. In addition, levomilnacipran lacks a significant affinity for alpha- and beta-adrenergic, muscarinic, and histaminergic receptors. At a dose 2.5 times the maximum recommended dose, levomilnacipran does not prolong the QTc to any clinically relevant extent.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The relative bioavailability of the extended-release formulation of levomilnacipran is about 92% compared to an oral solution of the drug. The median time to reach peak plasma concentrations following an oral dose is 6 to 8 hours. Food does not significantly affect plasma concentrations of levomilnacipran; therefore, the drug can be administered with or without food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Hepatic elimination of levomilnacipran is low. No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with low, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Renal excretion plays a predominant role in the elimination of levomilnacipran. Moderate and severe renal impairment increases the exposure (AUC) of the drug by approximately 2- and 3-fold, respectively. Dosing adjustments are recommended for patients with moderate (CrCl: 30 to 59 mL/minute) or severe (CrCl: 15 to 29 mL/minute) renal impairment. Levomilnacipran is not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Clinical studies in pediatric patients have not been conducted.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Elderly subjects have a slightly higher exposure (Cmax and AUC increased by 24% and 26%, respectively) than younger adults. However, no dose adjustment is recommended based upon age alone.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No dosage adjustment is needed based upon gender.
  Text
  Levomilnacipran is administered orally. Levomilnacipran is an enantiomer of racemic milnacipran. The drug has a large volume of distribution, and clinically insignificant plasma protein binding (22%). Metabolism occurs through desethylation to form the major metabolite N-desethyl levomilnacipran, and through hydroxylation to form p-hydroxy-levomilnacipran. The metabolites, which are inactive, undergo conjugation with glucuronide to form conjugates. Desethylation occurs primarily by CYP3A4 with minor contributions by CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP2J2. The half-life of the parent compound is about 12 hours. Levomilnacipran and its metabolites are eliminated primarily by renal excretion. About 58% of a dose is excreted as levomilnacipran, and 18% of a dose is excreted as N-desethyl levomilnacipran. The remaining identifiable metabolites account for 9% of a dose.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Levomilnacipran is partially metabolized by CYP450 isoenzymes, primarily CYP3A4. Do not exceed 80 mg/day in adults during the concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. In vitro studies suggest that CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP2J2 have only minimal contributions to the metabolism; therefore, no dosage adjustments are needed during the use of inhibitors of these isoenzymes. In addition, no clinically significant change in levomilnacipran exposure occurred during coadministration with carbamazepine, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, or alprazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate. Levomilnacipran is a weak substrate of P-gp and is not a substrate of BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT3, or OCT2.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Extended-release capsules:
Administer at approximately the same time each day.
Swallow whole. Do not open, chew or crush the capsule.
May administer with or without food.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    120 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    120 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Hepatic elimination of levomilnacipran is low. No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with low, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 60 mL/minute or greater: No dosage adjustment required.
CrCl 30 to 59 mL/minute: Do not exceed 80 mg PO once daily.
CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute: Do not exceed 40 mg PO once daily.
CrCl less than 15 mL/minute: Levomilnacipran is not recommended.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis:
Levomilnacipran is not recommended. The extent of removal of levomilnacipran by hemodialysis is unknown; therefore use should be avoided.
