=== Methoxsalen (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 386)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Methoxsalen is a photosensitizing agent.

Routes: oral, injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: For vitiligo, 0.6 mg/kg PO qod; For psoriasis, 20 mg PO qod for patients 115 kg for either hard gelatin capsules or soft gelatin capsules; Maximum dosage limits not established for topical therapy.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bullous rash, folliculitis, miliaria, rash, skin hypopigmentation, urticaria, vesicular rash, anxiety, depression, insomnia, pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism, thrombosis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules (Oxsoralen-Ultra®) should not be used interchangeably with methoxsalen hard gelatin capsules (8-MOP®). Methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules exhibit significantly greater bioavailability and earlier photosensitization onset time than previous methoxsalen dosage forms.

Brand Names
  - 8-MOP
  - Oxsoralen
  - Oxsoralen-Ultra
  - UVADEX

Dosage Forms
  - Methoxsalen 10mg Oral capsule, liquid filled
  - Methoxsalen Bulk powder
  - UVADEX Sterile 20mcg/ml Solution for Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the palliative treatment of the skin manifestations of CTCL unresponsive to other forms of treatment, used with the CELLEX photopheresis system
      Routes
        Heading
        Extracorporeal dosage (Uvadex)
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          Calculate the dosage according to treatment volume as follows: treatment volume X 0.017 = mL of methoxsalen per treatment. Each treatment involves collection of leukocytes, photoactivation, and reinfusion of photoactivated cells; methoxsalen is injected into the recirculation bag prior to the photoactivation phase. Treatment is given on 2 consecutive days every 4 weeks for at least 7 treatment cycles (approximately 6 months). In patients who have an increased skin score (from baseline) at the fourth treatment assessment (at approximately 3 months), an accelerated treatment schedule may be administered consisting of 2 consecutive treatments every 2 weeks for a maximum of 20 cycles. Resume the regular treatment schedule if there is a 25% improvement in the skin score after 4 consecutive weeks on the accelerated treatment schedule. There is no clinical evidence of additional treatment benefit beyond 6 months or with a different schedule.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL)
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (hard gelatin capsules, 8-MOP or soft gelatin capsules, Oxsoralen-Ultra)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Administer the appropriate dose (as follows) with food or milk 2—3 times weekly; separate doses by at least 48 hours. For patients weighing 115 kg administer 70 mg PO. Give Oxsoralen-Ultra 1.5—2 hours before or 8-MOP 2 hours before measured periods of high-intensity UVA exposure. If there is no response or only a minimal response after 15 treatments, the dosage of methoxsalen may be increased by 10 mg. The one-time increase in dosage may be continued for the remainder of the treatment course but should not be exceeded. When patients have achieved 95% clearing or a Grade 4 response (95% improvement with complete flattening of plaques including borders), they may be placed on a maintenance schedule. Once a week treatment, once every 2 weeks, once every 3 weeks, and then as necessary for flares is the recommended sequence. Adherence to each maintenance sequence step for at least 2 treatments is recommended unless erythema or psoriatic flare occurs.
    Heading
    For the treatment of severe, recalcitrant, disabling psoriasis that is not adequately responsive to other forms of therapy and is diagnosed by biopsy; alopecia† areata; atopic dermatitis†; eczema†; lichen planus†; and for increased tolerance of skin to sunlight†
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (hard gelatin capsules, 8-MOP)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        20 mg PO given with food or milk, 2—4 hours prior to measured periods of sunlight or UV radiation, 2—3 times weekly. Duration of exposure to sunlight or UVA is dependent upon number of exposures and basic skin color. Therapy should be on alternate days; never give on 2 consecutive days. Severe burns may result from doses greater than 0.6 mg/kg. This dosage should not be exceeded.
      Heading
      Topical dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults and Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        Apply to a well-defined area and then expose the area to UVA. Initial exposure time should be conservative and not exceed that which is predicted to be one-half the minimal erythema dose. Determine the treatment interval by the erythema response; generally once a week treatment or less is recommended. Pigmentation may begin after a few weeks, but significant repigmentation may require 6—9 months of treatment. Periodic retreatment may be necessary to retain all of the new pigment.
    Heading
    For the treatment of idiopathic vitiligo (in conjunction with UVA)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules (Oxsoralen-Ultra®) should not be used interchangeably with methoxsalen hard gelatin capsules (8-MOP®). Methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules exhibit significantly greater bioavailability and earlier photosensitization onset time than previous methoxsalen dosage forms. Serious burns from either UVA or sunlight even through window glass can result if the recommended dosage of the drug and/or exposure schedules are exceeded. Patients should be treated in accordance with the dosimetry specifically recommended for methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules. Determine the minimum phototoxic dose and phototoxic peak time after drug administration before use of long wave UVA radiation with methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules. If improperly used, methoxsalen lotion may cause severe burns; only a physician should apply the lotion to a patient under controlled conditions for light exposure and subsequent light shielding. Never dispense methoxsalen lotion to a patient.Methoxsalen is contraindicated for use by patients with an idiosyncratic reaction to psoralen compounds or with conditions associated with skin photosensitivity disorder because the drug increases photosensitivity potential. Such conditions include systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), porphyria cutanea tarda, erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP), variegate porphyria, xeroderma pigmentosum, albinism, hydroa vacciniforme, leukoderma of infectious origin, and polymorphous light eruption.The methoxsalen sterile solution (Uvadex®) should be used only by physicians who have special competence in the diagnosis and treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and who have special training and experience in the UVAR® Photopheresis System; consult the UVAR® Photopheresis System operator's manual before using this product. Methoxsalen with UV radiation should be used only by physicians with special competence in the diagnosis and treatment of psoriasis and vitiligo and special training and experience in photochemotherapy. Use of psoralen and ultraviolet radiation therapy should be under constant supervision of such a physician. For the treatment of psoriasis, photochemotherapy should be restricted to patients with severe, recalcitrant, disabling, psoriasis that has not responded adequately to other forms of therapy and only when the diagnosis is certain. Patients with erythrodermic psoriasis should be closely monitored because pre-existing erythema may obscure observations of possible treatment-related phototoxic erythema. Because of the possibility of ocular damage, aging of the skin, and cutaneous cancers, patients should be fully informed of the inherent risks of this therapy. When methoxsalen is used in combination with photopheresis, refer to the UVAR® System Operator's Manual for specific warnings, cautions, indications, and instructions related to photopheresis.Methoxsalen is contraindicated in patients with a history of melanoma, current melanoma, or invasive cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma because the drug can act as a photocarcinogen. Methoxsalen can potentiate the incidence of skin cancer or premature aging of the skin. Patients with basal cell carcinoma or a history of this condition should be observed carefully during treatment with PUVA. In addition, fair skinned patients and those with a history of arsenic treatment, radiation therapy, cytotoxic chemotherapy treatment, or prolonged tar and ultraviolet light B (UVB) therapy are at an increased risk for developing skin cancer. Patients receiving PUVA have an increased risk for the development of skin cancers, including melanoma, squamous cell skin cancer, and basal cell skin cancer. The risk is particularly high for patients who have received > 250 PUVA treatments and in those whose treatment has spanned > 15 years. Some patients developed melanoma over 5 years after completing PUVA therapy. Patients who have received PUVA therapy should be monitored throughout their lives for the development of cutaneous malignancies.Patients with hepatic disease or insufficiency should be treated cautiously with methoxsalen since hepatic biotransformation is necessary for renal drug elimination.Methoxsalen is contraindicated for use by patients with aphakia (lack of lenses) because of an increased risk of retinal damage.The safety of methoxsalen in pregnancy had not been established (FDA pregnancy category C). There are no adequate human studies on the potential adverse effects in the fetus. It is unknown if methoxsalen is distributed into breast milk. This drug should be used during pregnancy or breast-feeding only when clearly needed.Sunlight (UV) exposure even through window glass can result in serious burns following therapy with methoxsalen. If improperly used, methoxsalen lotion may cause severe burns; only a physician should apply the lotion to a patient under controlled conditions for light exposure and subsequent light shielding. Never dispense methoxsalen lotion to a patient. Patients should avoid sun exposure, even through window glass or cloud cover, for at least 8 hours after taking methoxsalen. If sun exposure cannot be avoided, patients should wear protective devices such as a hat and gloves and apply sunscreens that filter out UVA radiation (at least SPF 15). These sunscreens should be applied to all areas that might be exposed to sunlight, including lips. Sunscreens should not be applied to areas affected by psoriasis until after the patient has been treated in a UVA chamber. UVA-absorbing wrap-around sunglasses should be worn during daylight hours for 24 hours after combined methoxsalen/UVA therapy. Patients should not sunbathe 24 hours before and 48 hours after methoxsalen and UV therapy. The presence of a sunburn may prevent an accurate evaluation of the patient's response to photochemotherapy. The photosensitizing effects of methoxsalen lotion are greater than the oral capsules; counsel patients to keep treated areas protected. Also, methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules exhibit significantly greater bioavailability and earlier photosensitization onset time than previous methoxsalen dosage forms. Patients should be treated in accordance with the dosimetry specifically recommended for methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules. Determine the minimum phototoxic dose and phototoxic peak time after drug administration before use of long wave UVA radiation with methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules. Methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules (Oxsoralen-Ultra®) should not be used interchangeably with methoxsalen hard gelatin capsules (8-MOP®).Because of the cataractogenic potential of psoralens and PUVA therapy, extreme caution should be exercised when using PUVA therapy in patients with cataracts. Animal studies have shown that cataracts develop without eye protection. Studies in humans have not shown an increased risk for cataract formation when the appropriate eye protection is used. UVA-absorbing wrap-around sunglasses should be worn during in daylight for 24 hours after combined methoxsalen/UVA therapy. Patients should have an ophthalmologic exam prior to start of therapy and then yearly.If possible, patients with severe cardiac disease should not be treated in a vertical PUVA chamber due to the potential for heat stress or the consequences of prolonged standing.The safety of methoxsalen therapy in children has not been established, and the lotion is contraindicated for use by children because neither the safety nor efficacy of treatment have been established. Potential hazards of long-term PUVA therapy include the possibilities of carcinogenicity and cataract formation as well as actinic degeneration (premature aging of the skin).
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Methoxsalen is contraindicated in individuals with idiosyncratic or hypersensitivity reactions to other psoralen compounds.
    Headline
    skin photosensitivity disorder
    General Information
    Methoxsalen is contraindicated in individuals who have a history of a light sensitive disease/skin photosensitivity disorder. Conditions associated with photosensitivity include systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), porphyria cutanea tarda, erythropoietic protoporphyria, variegate porphyria, xeroderma pigmentosum, and albinism.
    Headline
    requires an experienced clinician
    General Information
    Administration of methoxsalen for extracorporeal administration requires an experienced clinician who has special competence in the diagnosis and treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and who has special training and experience in the CELLEX photopheresis system; consult the operator's manual before using this product. Oral methoxsalen with UV radiation should be used only by clinicians trained in the diagnosis and treatment of psoriasis and who have experience in photochemotherapy.
    Headline
    history of skin cancer, melanoma or a personal history of melanoma, radiation therapy, skin cancer, squamous cell skin carcinoma
    General Information
    Oral methoxsalen is contraindicated in individuals who have melanoma or a personal history of melanoma and in individuals with invasive squamous cell skin carcinoma. Because pre-existing erythema may obscure observations of possible treatment-related phototoxic erythema, monitor individuals with erythrodermic psoriasis closely. Methoxsalen therapy may cause skin cancer; monitor individuals for the development of skin tumors. Additionally, individuals with a history of skin cancer, including basal cell carcinoma, should be monitored closely. Previous cutaneous exposure to tar and UVB treatment, radiation therapy, or arsenic may increase the risk of developing skin carcinomas.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use oral methoxsalen with caution in individuals with hepatic failure; hepatic biotransformation is necessary for urinary excretion. Before starting therapy in individuals with hepatic impairment, weigh the potential benefit of methoxsalen for extracorporeal administration with photopheresis against any possible risk of hepatic toxicity from low systemic exposure to methoxsalen.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Methoxsalen may cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy, based on data from animal studies. Methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules are listed as FDA pregnancy category C; methoxsalen for extracorporeal administration with photopheresis is listed as FDA pregnancy category D. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy during methoxsalen therapy. If methoxsalen is used during pregnancy or if pregnancy occurs during methoxsalen therapy, the woman should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Fetal toxicities (e.g., fetal death, decreased feal weight, and skeletal malformations/variations) were observed following administration of methoxsalen (80 to 160 mg/kg/day) in pregnant rats.
    Headline
    aphakia, cataracts
    General Information
    Ocular toxicity including cataracts may occur with oral methoxsalen therapy; therefore, use it with caution in individuals with cataracts. Methoxsalen is contraindicated in individuals with aphakia who have a significantly increased risk of retinal damage due to the absence of lenses. Advise individuals to wear UVA-absorbing wrap-around sunglasses during daylight for 24 hours after treatment with methoxsalen. Individuals receiving oral methoxsalen should have an ophthalmologic exam prior to start of therapy and then yearly thereafter.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during methoxsalen treatment. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during methoxsalen therapy.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    It is not known if methoxsalen is secreted in human milk. Due to the risk of serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women should discontinue breast-feeding during methoxsalen therapy.
    Headline
    cardiovascular disease, geriatric, renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use oral methoxsalen with caution in geriatric adults, especially those with a pre-existing history of cataracts, cardiovascular disease, renal failure or renal impairment, liver dysfunction, or skin cancer. Dose selection for geriatric adults should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range.
    Headline
    increased risk for procedure-related complications
    General Information
    Methoxsalen solution for injection is contraindicated in individuals with increased risk for procedure-related complications, specifically, any contraindications to the photopheresis procedure. Individuals with cardiac diseases or those who may be unable to tolerate prolonged standing or exposure to heat stress should not be treated in a vertical UVA chamber.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Methoxsalen may cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy, based on data from animal studies. Methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules are listed as FDA pregnancy category C; methoxsalen for extracorporeal administration with photopheresis is listed as FDA pregnancy category D. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy during methoxsalen therapy. If methoxsalen is used during pregnancy or if pregnancy occurs during methoxsalen therapy, the woman should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Fetal toxicities (e.g., fetal death, decreased feal weight, and skeletal malformations/variations) were observed following administration of methoxsalen (80 to 160 mg/kg/day) in pregnant rats.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    It is not known if methoxsalen is secreted in human milk. Due to the risk of serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women should discontinue breast-feeding during methoxsalen therapy.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as ibuprofen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of ibuprofen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Acitretin: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and retinoids together with caution; the risk of severe burns/phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Adapalene: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and adapalene together with caution; the risk of severe burns or phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Adapalene; Benzoyl Peroxide: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and adapalene together with caution; the risk of severe burns or phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Allopurinol: (Minor) Preclinical data suggests that allopurinol may decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Alpha interferons: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Alteplase: (Minor) Agents that decrease clotting, such as thrombolytic agents, could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
amLODIPine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound. (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Anagrelide: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Anticoagulants: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Antithrombin III: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Apixaban: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Argatroban: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Beclomethasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if methoxsalen treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Methoxsalen may increase bendamustine exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions (e.g., myelosuppression, infection, hepatotoxicity). Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and methoxsalen is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and methylene blue together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Betamethasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Bexarotene: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and retinoids together with caution; the risk of severe burns/phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and tetracyclines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and tetracyclines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Bivalirudin: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Budesonide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as meloxicam could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as ibuprofen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of ibuprofen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciclesonide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Cilostazol: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Clevidipine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Clindamycin; Adapalene; Benzoyl Peroxide: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and adapalene together with caution; the risk of severe burns or phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Clopidogrel: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Cod Liver Oil: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and retinoids together with caution; the risk of severe burns/phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Corticosteroids: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Cortisone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Dabigatran: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Dalteparin: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Deflazacort: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Demeclocycline: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and tetracyclines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
dexAMETHasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Diclofenac: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as diclofenac could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of diclofenac before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as diclofenac could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of diclofenac before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Some antineoplastic agents have been reported to decrease the absorption of digoxin tablets due to their adverse effects on the GI mucosa; the effect on digoxin liquid is not known. The reduction in digoxin tablet absorption has resulted in plasma concentrations that are 50% of pretreatment levels and has been clinically significant in some patients. It is prudent to closely monitor patients for loss of clinical efficacy of digoxin while receiving antineoplastic therapy.
dilTIAZem: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as ibuprofen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of ibuprofen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as naproxen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of naproxen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Dipyridamole: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Doxycycline: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and tetracyclines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Edoxaban: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Enoxaparin: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Eptifibatide: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Eravacycline: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and eravacycline together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin.
Etodolac: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as etodolac could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of etodolac before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Felodipine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Fenoprofen: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as fenoprofen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of fenoprofen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Fezolinetant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fezolinetant and methoxsalen is contraindicated due to the risk of increased fezolinetant exposure which may increase the risk of fezolinetant-related adverse effects. Fezolinetant is a CYP1A2 substrate; methoxsalen is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased fezolinetant overall exposure by 360%.
Fludrocortisone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Flunisolide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Flurbiprofen: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as flurbirprofen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of flurbirprofen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Fluticasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fondaparinux: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Food: (Minor) Phototoxic dermatitis can result from contact with psoralen-containing plants/foods such as celery, fennel, limes, parsley, and parsnip. Contact exposure to such foods should be approached with care during methoxsalen treatment as in theory such exposure might increase the likelyhood of a skin reaction. Follow all directions of the manufacturer to avoid untoward methoxsalen-induced photoreactions.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Hydantoins may increase the clearance of methoxsalen. The mechanism may be due to phenytoin induction of hepatic metabolizing enzymes resulting in reduced methoxsalen serum concentrations.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Additive photosensitization may be seen with concurrent administration of sulfonylureas and other photosensitizing agents.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Additive photosensitization may be seen with concurrent administration of sulfonylureas and other photosensitizing agents.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Additive photosensitization may be seen with concurrent administration of sulfonylureas and other photosensitizing agents.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Additive photosensitization may be seen with concurrent administration of sulfonylureas and other photosensitizing agents.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Additive photosensitization may be seen with concurrent administration of sulfonylureas and other photosensitizing agents.
Griseofulvin: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and griseofulvin together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Heparin: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Hydantoins: (Major) Hydantoins may increase the clearance of methoxsalen. The mechanism may be due to phenytoin induction of hepatic metabolizing enzymes resulting in reduced methoxsalen serum concentrations.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as ibuprofen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of ibuprofen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Hydrocortisone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and methylene blue together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as ibuprofen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of ibuprofen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as ibuprofen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of ibuprofen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as ibuprofen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of ibuprofen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause photosensitivity and may increase the photosensitization effects of drugs like photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation (e.g., avoiding sun exposure and tanning booths) and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin.
Indomethacin: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as indomethacin could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of indomethacin before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
ISOtretinoin: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and retinoids together with caution; the risk of severe burns/phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Isradipine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Ketoprofen: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as ketoprofen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of ketoprofen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Ketorolac: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as ketorolac could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of ketorolac before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Levamlodipine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Mafenide: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and sulfonamides together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as meclofenamate could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of meclofenamate before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as mefenamic acid could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of mefenamic acid before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Melatonin: (Major) Caution should be exercised in patients on methoxsalen therapy (5- or 8-methoxypsoralen or 5-MOP and 8-MOP), which increases melatonin levels by inhibiting its metabolism. Methoxsalen is a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor in vitro.
Meloxicam: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as meloxicam could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as meloxicam could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and methylene blue together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Methotrexate: (Major) Methotrexate may increase the photosensitizing effects of photosensitizing agents used for photodynamic therapy.
Methylene Blue: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and methylene blue together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
methylPREDNISolone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Minocycline: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and tetracyclines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Mometasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Nabumetone: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as nabumetone could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of nabumetone before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Naproxen: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as naproxen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of naproxen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as naproxen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of naproxen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as naproxen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of naproxen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
NiCARdipine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
NIFEdipine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
niMODipine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Nisoldipine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound. (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Omadacycline: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and tetracyclines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Oxaprozin: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as oxaprozin could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of oxaprozin before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Pentosan: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Phenytoin: (Major) Hydantoins may increase the clearance of methoxsalen. The mechanism may be due to phenytoin induction of hepatic metabolizing enzymes resulting in reduced methoxsalen serum concentrations.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Additive photosensitization may be seen with concurrent administration of sulfonylureas and other photosensitizing agents.
Piroxicam: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as piroxicam could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of piroxicam before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Platelet Inhibitors: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Porfimer: (Major) Avoid coadministration of porfimer with methoxsalen due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. All patients treated with porfimer will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like methoxsalen may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Prasugrel: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
prednisoLONE: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
predniSONE: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Minor) Agents that decrease clotting, such as thrombolytic agents, could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Retinoids: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and retinoids together with caution; the risk of severe burns/phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Coadministration of riluzole with methoxsalen may increase the risk for riluzole-related adverse reactions, such as gastrointestinal symptoms and elevated hepatic enzymes. In vitro findings suggest an increase in riluzole exposure is likely; riluzole is a CYP1A2 substrate and methoxsalen is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Rivaroxaban: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Sarecycline: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and tetracyclines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) St. John's wort has been reported to increase the phototoxicity associated with photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Although interactions have not been reported, in theory it is possible that additive photosensitizing effects may result from the concomitant use of St. John's wort with other photosensitizing drugs.
Sulfacetamide: (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
sulfADIAZINE: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and sulfonamides together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and sulfonamides together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
sulfaSALAzine: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and sulfonamides together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Sulfonamides: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and sulfonamides together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Additive photosensitization may be seen with concurrent administration of sulfonylureas and other photosensitizing agents.
Sulindac: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as sulindac could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of sulindac before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as naproxen could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of naproxen before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause photosensitivity and may increase the photosensitization effects of drugs like photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation (e.g., avoiding sun exposure and tanning booths) and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin. (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Tenecteplase: (Minor) Agents that decrease clotting, such as thrombolytic agents, could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Tetracycline: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and tetracyclines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Tetracyclines: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and tetracyclines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Minor) Agents that decrease clotting, such as thrombolytic agents, could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Ticagrelor: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Tirofiban: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Tolmetin: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest agents that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis such as tolmetin could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Avoidance of tolmetin before and during photodynamic therapy may be advisable.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and retinoids together with caution; the risk of severe burns/phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Triamcinolone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and methoxsalen is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and methoxsalen is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Trifarotene: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and trifarotene together with caution; the risk of severe burns or phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and phenothiazines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Verapamil: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with methoxsalen is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like methoxsalen may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Vitamin A: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and retinoids together with caution; the risk of severe burns/phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Vorapaxar: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and methoxsalen due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and methoxsalen is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Warfarin: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Medications that may cause additive photosensitization when used with ziprasidone include methoxsalen. Patients should limit sunlight and ultra-violet exposure whenever possible, and use proper UV precautions to protect the skin.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Skin irritation, including severe edema, erythema, blistering, and exfoliative dermatitis, can occur during PUVA therapy. Severe burns requiring hospitalization and marked hyperpigmentation and scarring also have been reported but are usually associated with excessive dosing or UV radiation exposure. Mild, transient erythema at 24—48 hours after PUVA therapy is expected and indicates that a therapeutic interaction has occurred. Erythema >= Grade 2 (marked erythema but no edema) should be shielded during subsequent UVA exposures until erythema has resolved. Erythema > Grade 2 which appears within 24 hours after UVA treatment may signal a potentially severe burn. Erythema may become progressively worse over the next 24 hours. Patients should be monitored closely and protected from further UVA and sunlight exposures. Benzophenone sunscreens can reduce the incidence of psoralen-induced phototoxicity. PUVA-induced photosensitivity and inflammation differs from sunburn and UVB phototherapy by causing deeper reactions within skin tissues. The time course of delayed erythema is different with PUVA and may not involve the usual mediators seen in sunburn. PUVA-induced redness may be just beginning at 24 hours, when UVB erythema has already passed its peak. Compared to equally erythemogenic doses of UVB, the histologic alterations induced by PUVA show more dermal vessel damage and longer duration of epidermal and dermal abnormalities. Pruritus has been reported in 10% of patients. In most cases pruritus may be treated with topical emollients or other agents; severe pruritus may require systemic treatment. When pruritus is resistant to treatment, the affected skin should be shielded from further UV exposure until the condition is resolved. If intractable pruritus is generalized, UVA treatment should be held until the symptom disappears. Other adverse dermatologic effects include rash (unspecified), herpes simplex, aggravation of psoriasis, skin freckling, skin hyperpigmentation or skin hypopigmentation, xerosis, vesicular rash, and bullous rash, folliculitis, urticaria, severe skin pain, onycholysis, and nail discoloration.Nausea/vomiting occurs in 10% of patients receiving methoxsalen and can be minimized by administering the medication with food or milk, giving two divided doses 30 minutes apart, or reducing the total dose.PUVA therapy using methoxsalen can cause adverse CNS effects including depression, dizziness, and headache. Nervousness, insomnia, and vertigo have been reported with oral methoxsalen therapy. Other reported adverse reactions include malaise, miliaria, leg/muscle cramps, and hypotension.Transient loss of motor coordination and cheilitis have been reported in patients receiving oral methoxsalen. Edema, malaise, muscle cramps, and hypotension have been reported in patients receiving PUVA therapy involving methoxsalen. Formation of cataracts and accelerated aging of the skin may occur.A prospective study of 1380 patient over 5 years has indicated an increased risk of cutaneous secondary malignancy following PUVA therapy. A 9-fold increase in the risk of cutaneous squamous cell cancer has been demonstrated especially in patients who are fair-skinned or had a pre-PUVA exposure to prolonged tar and UVB treatment, 2) ionizing radiation, or 3) arsenic. In addition a 2-fold increase in the risk of basal cell carcinoma was noted. Further anaylsis has demonstrated an elevated risk risk for the development of melanoma in these patients. The relative risk for melanoma in these patients was 2.3, and the risk is higher in those patients who have received > 250 PUVA treatments and in those whose treatments spanned > 15 years. Some patients developed melanoma after completing PUVA therapy over 5 years earlier. Patients who have received PUVA therapy should be monitored throughout their lives for the development of cutaneous malignancies.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    bullous rash, folliculitis, miliaria, rash, skin hypopigmentation, urticaria, vesicular rash
    General Information
    Skin hypopigmentation, vesiculation (vesicular rash), bullae formation (bullous rash), miliaria, urticaria, folliculitis, cutaneous tenderness, extension of psoriasis, and rash have been reported in patients who received oral methoxsalen in combination with ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      folliculitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      skin hypopigmentation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vesicular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      miliaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    dysgeusia, nausea
    General Information
    Nausea occurred in about 10% of patients who received oral methoxsalen. Gastrointestinal disturbances have also been reported in patients who received methoxsalen in combination with ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA). Taking methoxsalen with food or milk or in 2 divided doses (approximately one-half hour apart) may minimize nausea. Nausea and dysgeusia were reported in postmarketing surveillance of patients who received extracorporeal methoxsalen with photopheresis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cataracts
    General Information
    Cataracts developed in animals exposed high doses of UVA light after receiving methoxsalen. If the lens is exposed to ultraviolet A light, a photochemical action may result in an irreversible binding of methoxsalen to proteins and the DNA components of the lens. Therefore, patients who receive systemic therapy with methoxsalen should take precautions to prevent eye exposure to direct or indirect sunlight (e.g., wear UV protecting sun glasses for 24 hours after methoxsalen ingestion). In patients who used adequate eye protection, there is no evidence of significantly increased risk of cataracts due to PUVA therapy. In a prospective study of psoriasis patients who received oral methoxsalen and ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA) (n = 1380), the risk of developing cataracts within 5 years from the first PUVA treatment was not increased. Perform an ophthalmologic examination prior to the start of therapy and yearly thereafter.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cataracts
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    new primary malignancy
    General Information
    New primary malignancy has been reported with systemic methoxsalen plus UVA therapy. In a 5.7 year prospective study of psoriasis patients who received oral methoxsalen and ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA) (n = 1380), the risk of developing cutaneous squamous-cell carcinoma starting at 22 months following the first PUVA exposure was dose dependent with an approximate 12.8 times higher incidence in patients who received high dose compared with low-dose PUVA. There was not a dose-related increase in the rate of basal cell carcinoma in this study. In a follow-up analysis, the relative risk of developing melanoma was 2.3 (95 CI, 1.1 to 4.1); the risk was higher in patients who received more than 250 PUVA treatments and in patients who received treatment for greater than 15 years earlier. In another study in 690 patients observed for up to 4 years, there was not an increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer, although patients in this analysis had significantly less exposure to PUVA. Monitor patients who received PUVA therapy for skin tumors throughout their lifetime.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    burns, photosensitivity
    General Information
    Serious burns and skin aging may occur due to sunlight (UV) exposure following methoxsalen administration. Photosensitivity reactions were reported in postmarketing surveillance of patients who received extracorporeal methoxsalen with photopheresis. Due to a risk of severe photosensitivity, patients should avoid sunlight or UV exposure and wear protective UVA absorbing, wrap-around sunglasses and sunscreen with a SP 15 or higher for 24 hours after therapy. Individuals who are receiving concomitant therapy with other topical or systemic photosensitizing agents have greater risk for photosensitivity reactions with methoxsalen therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      burns
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    pruritus
    General Information
    Pruritus has been reported in about 10% of patients who received oral methoxsalen in combination with ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA). Application of emollients or other topical agents or systemic agents may be used to treat pruritus. If the pruritus does not resolve, protect affected areas from further UVA exposure until the condition resolves. If pruritus is generalized, discontinue therapy until full resolution of symptoms.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    erythema
    General Information
    Mild and transient erythema occurs between 24—48 hours following ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA) therapy. Grade 3 or higher moderate erythema may occur when oral methoxsalen is given in combination with PUVA; this erythema may signify a potentially severe burn and may become progressively worse peaking around 48 hours or later after oral methoxsalen. Monitor these patients closely; patients should take precautions to prevent further exposure to direct or indirect sunlight.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anxiety, depression, insomnia
    General Information
    Nervousness (anxiety), insomnia, and depression have been reported in patients who received oral methoxsalen.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    dizziness, headache
    General Information
    Dizziness and headache have been reported in patients who received oral methoxsalen in combination with ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    edema, hypotension
    General Information
    Serious cardiovascular adverse events occurred in 10% of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received methoxsalen injection used with a photopheresis system in a single-arm study (n = 51). Most events were not related to photopheresis and did result in an interruption of scheduled photopheresis treatments. In this study, 1 patient (2%) with ischemic heart disease had an arrhythmia that started after the first day of photopheresis. Hypotension secondary to changes in extracorporeal volume was reported in greater than 1% of patients who received methoxsalen injection used with a photopheresis system. Edema and hypotension have been reported in patients who received oral methoxsalen in combination with ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Infection, including catheter infection, occurred in 10% of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who received methoxsalen injection used with a photopheresis system in a single-arm study (n = 51). Herpes simplex viral infection has been reported in patients who received oral methoxsalen in combination with ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    malaise
    General Information
    Malaise has been reported in patients who received oral methoxsalen in combination with ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    muscle cramps
    General Information
    Muscle cramps, specifically leg cramps, have been reported in patients who received oral methoxsalen in combination with ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, fever
    General Information
    Fever and hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions and rash were reported in postmarketing surveillance of patients who received extracorporeal methoxsalen with photopheresis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism, thrombosis
    General Information
    Thromboembolism (e.g., pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis) has been reported in patients with graft-versus-host disease (off-label use) who received methoxsalen for extracorporeal administration with photopheresis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thromboembolism
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Methoxsalen is a photosensitizing agent. Methoxsalen solution for extracorporeal administration is indicated for the palliative treatment of the skin manifestations of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma that is unresponsive to other forms of treatment. This formulation is used with the CELLEX photopheresis system. When administered as soft gelatin capsules, methoxsalen is indicated in conjunction with controlled doses of long wave ultraviolet radiation for the symptomatic control of severe, recalcitrant, disabling psoriasis that is not adequately responsive to other forms of therapy and when the diagnosis has been supported by biopsy. The soft gelatin capsules exhibit significantly greater bioavailability and earlier photosensitization onset time than previous methoxsalen dosage forms (i.e., hard gelatin capsules).

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mechanism of Action: When methoxsalen (psoralen, P) is activated by long wavelength ultraviolet radiation (UVA), it is a potent erythemogenic, melanogenic, and cytotoxic therapy. The strongest activity occurs in the UVA range of 320—400 nm. Skin reactivity to UVA (320—400 nm) radiation is markedly enhanced by the presence of methoxsalen. The exact mechanism of action of methoxsalen with epidermal melanocytes and keratinocytes is not known. The reaction of methoxsalen with DNA is better understood. Upon photoactivation, methoxsalen conjugates with DNA and forms monofunctional (binding to a single strand) and bifunctional (cross-linking of psoralen to both strands) adducts. In addition, reactions with proteins may occur. Methoxsalen also acts as a photosensitizer. Exposure to UVA in the presence of methoxsalen can lead to cell injury and inflammation. The usual manifestation of this reaction is delayed erythema, which may not be seen for several hours and peaks 48—72 hours. The inflammation is followed over several weeks by repair that is characterized by increased melanization of the epidermis and thickening of the stratum corneum.In the treatment of vitiligo, it has been suggested that melanocytes in the hair follicle are stimulated to move up the follicle and repopulate the epidermis. In the treatment of psoriasis or T-cell lymphoma, the mechanism is most often assumed to be DNA photo damage and result decrease in cell proliferation but other vascular, leukocyte, or cell regulatory mechanisms may also play a role.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The absorption of methoxsalen from the GI tract following oral administration is variable. Administration with food or milk increases absorption. Administration should remain consistent with food intake because the observed photosensitizing effect is likely related to the serum concentration of the drug. There is wide (6—15 fold) interpatient variability in peak serum concentrations after oral doses of methoxsalen. Maximum plasma concentrations occur 1.5—3 hours after oral administration of the hard-gelatin capsules (8-MOP) and may last up to 8 hours. Peak drug concentrations of the soft-gelatin capsules (Oxsoralen-Ultra) are obtained between 0.5—4 hours (mean 1.8 hours) following administration with 8 oz of milk. The overall extent of drug absorption is approximately 2-fold higher for soft-gelatin capsules as compared to the hard-gelatin capsules. Detectable methoxsalen concentrations were observed for up to 12 hours after a dose of the soft-gelatin capsules. Photosensitivity studies demonstrate a shortened time of peak photosensitivity (1.5—2.1 hours) for soft-gelatin vs hard-gelatin capsules (3.9—4.25 hours). In addition, the mean minimal erythema dose (MED, J/cm2) for soft-gelatin capsules is substantially less than that for hard-gelatin capsules. The half-life methoxsalen is approximately 2 hours.
    Name
    Topical Route
    Description
    The extent of absorption of topical methoxsalen is not known. Peak photosensitivity following topical administration occurs within 1—2 hours and can persist for several days.
    Name
    Other Route(s)
    Description
    Extracorporeal Route
Drug concentrations in the lens of the eye are comparable to serum concentrations. In an attempt to diminish interpatient variability and to increase exposure of white blood cells to the drug, methoxsalen sterile solution is injected directly into the buffy coat solution during photopheresis. This also results in a lower total dose of methoxsalen as compared to oral administration.
  Text
  Methoxsalen is administered orally, topically, and extracorporeally. Methoxsalen is reversibly bound to serum albumin and is also preferentially taken up by epidermal cells. Methoxsalen is almost completely metabolized in the liver. Approximately 95% of the drug is excreted as metabolites within 24 hours.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take methoxsalen soft gelatin capsules with food or low-fat milk approximately 2 hours prior to ultraviolet light treatment.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Administration Details
      Name
      Other Injectable Administration
      Description
      Extracorporeal dosage (Uvadex)
Methoxsalen 20 mcg/mL solution is used in combination with the CELLEX photopheresis system; consult the photopheresis system operator's manual prior to use.
Each methoxsalen treatment involves collection of leukocytes, photoactivation, and reinfusion of photoactivated cells.
Do NOT directly inject methoxsalen solution into patients.
Preparation
Do NOT dilute methoxsalen solution.
Draw the appropriate amount/volume of methoxsalen solution for the treatment dose into a plastic syringe; immediately inject into the photoactivation bag.
Methoxsalen solution may adsorb onto PVC and plastics; therefore, only use photopheresis procedural kits supplied for use with the instrument.
Discard any solution that is not used during the procedure; vial is for single use only.
Storage in a plastic syringe: discard contents if not used within 1 hour.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Administration Details
      Name
      Cream/Ointment/Lotion Formulations
      Description
      Only a physician should apply the lotion to a patient. Never dispense the lotion to a patient.
To avoid photosensitization and possible burns, use a finger cot or rubber glove when applying the lotion to a patient.
Lotion should only be applied by a physician to a small, well-defined area of vitiligo. Preferably, application of the lotion should only be to lesions that can be protected by clothing or a sunscreen from subsequent exposure to radiant UVA; suitable covering of the application area or topical sunblock application to the application area should follow the therapeutic UVA exposure. If the lotion is applied to the hands or face, instruct the patient to keep the treated areas protected from light by use of protective clothing or sunscreening agents. The application area may be highly photosensitive for several days. A severe burn injury may occur if the application area is exposed to additional UV or sunlight.
    Name
    Topical Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    For vitiligo, 0.6 mg/kg PO qod; For psoriasis, 20 mg PO qod for patients 115 kg for either hard gelatin capsules or soft gelatin capsules; Maximum dosage limits not established for topical therapy.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    For vitiligo, 0.6 mg/kg PO qod; For psoriasis, 20 mg PO qod for patients 115 kg for either hard gelatin capsules or soft gelatin capsules; Maximum dosage limits not established for topical therapy.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Maximum dosage limits not established for topical therapy; systemic treatment is not recommended.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Not recommended.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not recommended.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines are not available; however, patients should be treated with caution, as methoxsalen undergoes significant hepatic metabolism.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. Although data are lacking in patients with varying degrees of renal impairment, no reduction of dose or prolongation of the time required to use UV light protection were reported in renal transplant recipients with poor renal function who have undergone photopheresis treatment with methoxsalen.
