=== Tamsulosin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2144)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Tamsulosin is an oral alpha-blocker that is administered once-daily for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 0.8 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthenia, back pain, headache, infection, angioedema, dyspnea, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pruritus, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome, urticaria, arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), dizziness, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, syncope, vertigo, ejaculation dysfunction, infertility, libido decrease, priapism, blurred vision, floppy iris syndrome, visual impairment, cough

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Tamsulosin is a non-arylamine sulfonamide derivative. In patients with sulfonamide hypersensitivity, allergic reaction to tamsulosin has been rarely reported.

Brand Names
  - Flomax

Dosage Forms
  - Flomax 0.4mg Capsule
  - Tamsulosin Hydrochloride 0.4mg Oral capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.4 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose to 0.8 mg PO once daily after 2 to 4 weeks based on clinical response. If therapy is interrupted for several days, restart at 0.4 mg PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.4 mg PO once daily until definite stone passage or 28 days. Consider tamsulosin for individuals with stones of more than 5 to 10 mm.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 5 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        0.4 mg PO once daily until definite stone passage or 28 days. Consider tamsulosin for individuals with stones of 10 mm or less.
        Heading
        Children 2 to 4 years
        Dosage Description
        0.2 mg PO once daily until definite stone passage or 28 days. Consider tamsulosin for individuals with stones of 10 mm or less.
    Heading
    For the treatment of distal uretal nephrolithiasis† as an adjunct to conservative management

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Tamsulosin is a non-arylamine sulfonamide derivative. In patients with sulfonamide hypersensitivity, allergic reaction to tamsulosin has been rarely reported. If a patient reports a serious or life threatening sulfonamide allergy, the manufacturer advises caution when administering tamsulosin. However, tamsulosin is not contraindicated for use in patients with sulfonamide allergy. Based on clinical trials and post-marketing experience with tamsulosin, the potential for cross-reactivity in patients with sulfonamide allergy has not been established. In post-marketing experience, allergic-type reactions (such as skin rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema of the tongue, lips, and face) have been reported in some cases, and, in very rare cases, in patients who had a history of sulfa allergy (manufacturer data on file). According to the manufacturer, clinical trials with tamsulosin did not screen for or exclude patients with a history of sulfonamide allergy; therefore, the actual potential for sulfonamide cross-reactivity with tamsulosin is unknown. Non-arylamine sulfonamide derivatives (e.g., tamsulosin) have been reported to be proposed to have a lower risk of allergic reactions in patients with sulfonamide allergy, presumably due to the lack of one of the proposed structural sites of action for sulfonamide allergy (arylamine group in the N4 position). One large retrospective cohort study has reported that in patients with the presence of an allergic reaction after exposure to a sulfonamide antibiotic, 9.9% had an allergic reaction after receiving a non-antibiotic sulfonamide derivative, and 1.6% of patients who lacked an allergic reaction after sulfonamide antibiotic exposure had an allergic reaction after administration of a non-antibiotic sulfonamide derivative (adjusted odds ratio 2.8; 95% CI, 2.1—3.7). A causal relationship between sulfonamide hypersensitivity and allergic reactions with non-arylamine sulfonamide derivatives has not been definitively established and remains controversial. In general, patients with a documented sulfonamide allergy are considered to be predisposed for development of allergic drug reactions. Until further data are available, caution is prudent when administering sulfonamide derivatives to patients with a documented sulfonamide hypersensitivity.Tamsulosin should be used cautiously in patients with orthostatic hypotension, vertigo, or syncope. The signs and symptoms of orthostasis (postural hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo) were more frequently reported in tamsulosin-treated patients than those receiving placebo. As with other alpha-adrenergic blocking agents, there is a potential risk of syncope and patients should be cautioned to avoid situations where injury could result should syncope occur. Patients with renal impairment, renal failure or other renal disease and the elderly should also be monitored carefully for exaggerated hypotensive effects (e.g., first dose effect).Prostate cancer and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) cause many of the same symptoms and frequently they coexist. Patients should be evaluated prior to starting tamsulosin therapy to rule out the presence of prostate cancer.Tamsulosin has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Since tamsulosin is extensively metabolized, cautious dosage initiation at a lower dosage is prudent in patients with severe hepatic disease.Tamsulosin is classified pregnancy category B. Tamsulosin is only used to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia in men and is not indicated for females (or breast-feeding women). Tamsulosin is also not indicated for use in children.Patients receiving or who have previously received treatment with tamsulosin or other alpha-1 blockers may be at risk for intraoperative floppy iris syndrome during surgery for cataracts (ocular surgery). Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome is a small pupil syndrome variant that is characterized by a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery, but ophthalmologists should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique such as the use of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Tamsulosin is a non-arylamine sulfonamide derivative. Caution is advised when administering tamsulosin-containing products to individuals with serious or life-threatening sulfa allergy, as allergic reactions have rarely been reported. Non-arylamine sulfonamide derivatives (e.g., tamsulosin) have been reported to be proposed to have a lower risk of allergic reactions in patients with sulfonamide allergy, presumably due to the lack of one of the proposed structural sites of action for sulfonamide allergy (arylamine group in the N4 position).
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    As with other alpha-adrenergic antagonists, tamsulosin may cause orthostatic hypotension (postural hypotension, dizziness, and/or vertigo), which can lead to syncope. People starting treatment with tamsulosin should be cautioned to avoid situations where syncope could result in an injury, such as driving or operating machinery or completing other activities requiring coordination and concentration, until they are reasonably certain that tamsulosin does not affect them adversely.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Tamsulosin has not been studied in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure; caution is advised when giving tamsulosin to this population. People with mild and moderate hepatic impairment do not require a dosage adjustment.
    Headline
    planned procedure
    General Information
    The initiation of tamsulosin is not recommended for people who have a planned procedure for cataract or glaucoma surgery scheduled. Use caution in patients currently taking tamsulosin who will have these procedures. Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during ocular surgery for cataracts and glaucoma in patients on or previously treated with alpha-1 blockers, including tamsulosin. This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation current, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic medications, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. The patient's surgeon should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. There does not appear to be a benefit in stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy such as tamsulosin prior to cataract surgery.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and controlled data of tamsulosin use during human pregnancy. No adverse developmental effects were observed in animal reproductive studies in which tamsulosin was administered during the period of organogenesis. There are small retrospective studies that have examined tamsulosin for off-label use as a medical expulsive treatment (MET) for nephrolithiasis. In a retrospective study of pregnant patients with symptomatic urolithiasis, individuals treated with tamsulosin for MET were matched with pregnant patients who did not receive tamsulosin. A total of 27 patients received tamsulosin; 54 were in the control group. The median duration of exposure to tamsulosin was 3 days (range 1 to 110) and included use during the first (n = 3; 11%), second (n = 11; 40.7%), and third (n= 18; 67%) trimesters. There were 6 (22%) infants born preterm in the tamsulosin group and 12 (22%) in the control group. All infant birthweights were considered appropriate for gestational age, and there were no instances of spontaneous abortion, intrauterine fetal demise, or neonatal congenital anomalies. In the MET group, 2 (7%) of the infants died of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) within 6 months of birth compared with no reports of SIDS in the control group; however, this difference did not meet statistical significance (p = 0.11). In a second retrospective study of pregnant patients who presented to the hospital with renal colic, patients who received tamsulosin as MET were compared to a control group without MET. The safety of the treatment was evaluated using fetal outcomes of birth weight, APGAR scores, and gestational age. A total of 69 patients in their second or third trimester of pregnancy received tamsulosin and 138 pregnant patients were in the control group. For those receiving tamsulosin, the mean exposure time was 8 days with a maximum exposure time of 38 days. There were no significant differences noted for mean gestational age at birth, birthweight, or APGAR score. The infant medical records were followed up to 1 year of age, and the authors noted that there were no cases of sudden infant death syndrome reported in the tamsulosin group. Additional large, controlled studies are needed to fully explore the potential risks of using tamsulosin in pregnancy.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Tamsulosin should be used with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the use of tamsulosin in lactating individuals. There are no data regarding the presence or absence of tamsulosin in human milk, its effects of tamsulosin on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others and people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with tamsulosin. Consider the potential effects of tamsulosin when assessing infertility in these patients. Studies in female animals showed significant reductions in fertility associated with impairments in fertilization. Additionally, ejaculation disorders have been associated with tamsulosin, and studies revealed significantly reduced fertility in male animals, considered to be due to impairment of ejaculation, which was reversible.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and controlled data of tamsulosin use during human pregnancy. No adverse developmental effects were observed in animal reproductive studies in which tamsulosin was administered during the period of organogenesis. There are small retrospective studies that have examined tamsulosin for off-label use as a medical expulsive treatment (MET) for nephrolithiasis. In a retrospective study of pregnant patients with symptomatic urolithiasis, individuals treated with tamsulosin for MET were matched with pregnant patients who did not receive tamsulosin. A total of 27 patients received tamsulosin; 54 were in the control group. The median duration of exposure to tamsulosin was 3 days (range 1 to 110) and included use during the first (n = 3; 11%), second (n = 11; 40.7%), and third (n= 18; 67%) trimesters. There were 6 (22%) infants born preterm in the tamsulosin group and 12 (22%) in the control group. All infant birthweights were considered appropriate for gestational age, and there were no instances of spontaneous abortion, intrauterine fetal demise, or neonatal congenital anomalies. In the MET group, 2 (7%) of the infants died of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) within 6 months of birth compared with no reports of SIDS in the control group; however, this difference did not meet statistical significance (p = 0.11). In a second retrospective study of pregnant patients who presented to the hospital with renal colic, patients who received tamsulosin as MET were compared to a control group without MET. The safety of the treatment was evaluated using fetal outcomes of birth weight, APGAR scores, and gestational age. A total of 69 patients in their second or third trimester of pregnancy received tamsulosin and 138 pregnant patients were in the control group. For those receiving tamsulosin, the mean exposure time was 8 days with a maximum exposure time of 38 days. There were no significant differences noted for mean gestational age at birth, birthweight, or APGAR score. The infant medical records were followed up to 1 year of age, and the authors noted that there were no cases of sudden infant death syndrome reported in the tamsulosin group. Additional large, controlled studies are needed to fully explore the potential risks of using tamsulosin in pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others and people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with tamsulosin. Consider the potential effects of tamsulosin when assessing infertility in these patients. Studies in female animals showed significant reductions in fertility associated with impairments in fertilization. Additionally, ejaculation disorders have been associated with tamsulosin, and studies revealed significantly reduced fertility in male animals, considered to be due to impairment of ejaculation, which was reversible.

Interactions
Abiraterone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tamsulosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abiraterone is necessary. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and abiraterone is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of coadministration with a moderate CYP2D6 on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer of tamsulosin recommends caution with use.
Acebutolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and adagrasib is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of tamsulosin by 2.8-fold.
Alpha-blockers: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Ambrisentan: (Minor) Because symptoms of orthostasis (e.g., postural hypotension, dizziness, vertigo) are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of clarithromycin. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin, should be avoided.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if tamsulosin and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in tamsulosin-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of tamsulosin. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor such as artemether; lumefantrine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Atazanavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
Atenolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of avacopan with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Avanafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest dose of avanafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of avanafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of avanafil and tamsulosin.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of berotralstat with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg. The systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4/CYP2D6 inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A4 inhibition.
Beta-blockers: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Betaxolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of lenacapavir with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bisoprolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of bupropion with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of bupropion with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Capivasertib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of capivasertib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and capivasertib is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Carteolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Carvedilol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Ceritinib: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ceritinib is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 like ceritinib are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor such as chloramphenicol. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpromazine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of cimetidine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Treatment with cimetidine 400 mg every 6 hours for 6 days in healthy volunteers (n = 10) resulted in a 26% decrease in the clearance of tamsulosin, which resulted in a 44% increase in tamsulosin AUC. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate and cimetidine is a weak CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitor.
Cinacalcet: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of cinacalcet with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and cinacalcet is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of clarithromycin. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin, should be avoided.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Cobicistat: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of conivaptan with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of crizotinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A4 inhibition.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor such as cyclosporine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Dacomitinib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dacomitinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of darifenacin with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP2D6 inhibition.
Darunavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of bupropion with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor such as quinidine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Doxazosin: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Dronedarone: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of dronedarone. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Therefore, concomitant use with drugs that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as dronedarone, should be avoided.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of duloxetine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and duloxetine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering tamsulosin with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated tamsulosin plasma concentrations. Tamsulosin is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Coadministration of tamsulosin and eliglustat may result in increased concentrations of tamsulosin. Use tamsulosin with caution in patients receiving eliglustat, particularly if the tamsulosin dose is greater than 0.4 mg, and monitor closely for tamsulosin-related adverse effects including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate; eliglustat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ensitrelvir is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A, such as ensitrelvir, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of erythromycin with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of escitalopram with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and escitalopram is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Esmolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tamsulosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with everolimus is necessary. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate. Everolimus is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of coadministration of both a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor with tamsulosin have not been evaluated; however, there is a potential for significantly increased plasma concentrations of tamsulosin.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of fedratinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of moderate CYP3A4 and moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibition.
Felodipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue tamsulosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and tamsulosin.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of fluconazole with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of fluoxetine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Tamsulosin should be used with caution in combination with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as fluvoxamine. The cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 are responsible for the extensive metabolism of tamsulosin. Strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are known to increase the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. No studies have been performed with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors. As with other alpha adrenergic blocking agents there is a potential risk of syncope with tamsulosin, particularly if serum concentrations are elevated. Monitor blood pressure and observe for symptoms of orthostasis.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
Grapefruit juice: (Moderate) Hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes 2D6 and 3A4 are responsible for the extensive metabolism of tamsulosin. Although no clinical studies have been done, tamsulosin should be used with caution with inhibitors of CYP3A4 isoenzymes (e.g., grapefruit juice).
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as haloperidol. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with tamsulosin, a CYP3A substrate, as tamsulosin toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Iloprost: (Minor) Iloprost can have additive effects when administered with other antihypertensive agents, including alpha-blockers. These effects can be used to therapeutic advantage, but dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Imatinib: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of imatinib, STI-571. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Therefore, concomitant use with drugs that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as imatinib, STI-571, should be avoided.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with isavuconazonium. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as hypotension, is recommended during coadministration. Tamsulosin is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4 and drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Isradipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Itraconazole: (Major) Use of tamsulosin is not recommended during and for 2 weeks after itraconazole therapy due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in an increase in the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ketoconazole is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations are expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. Coadministration with ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin 2.2 and 2.8-fold, respectively.
Labetalol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Landiolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of clarithromycin. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin, should be avoided.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of oral lefamulin with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A4 inhibition.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of lenacapavir with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of tamsulosin may occur when given with letermovir. Avoid this combination in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine because the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Tamsulosin is partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concomitant use of tamsulosin with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in increase in the maximum plasma concentration and exposure of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. The effects of concurrent use with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors have not been evaluated.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Levobunolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ketoconazole is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations are expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. Coadministration with ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin 2.2 and 2.8-fold, respectively.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tamsulosin and lonafarnib due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as lonafarnib, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue tamsulosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and tamsulosin.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of mavorixafor with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Metoprolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and mifepristone is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A, such as mifepristone, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) The effect of mirabegron on tamsulosin pharmacokinetics was determined in drug interaction studies, there was a lack of pharmacokinetic interaction. However, it is recommended that mirabegron be administered with caution in patients taking other medications in the setting of risks for urinary obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention. This includes caution when used with tamsulosin. In addition, mirabegron is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 isoenzymes such as tamsulosin may be increased when co-administered with mirabegron.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and tamsulosin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of tamsulosin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of tamsulosin.
Nadolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Nebivolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Nefazodone: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of nefazodone. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as nefazodone, should be avoided.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
niMODipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Niraparib; Abiraterone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tamsulosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abiraterone is necessary. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and abiraterone is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of coadministration with a moderate CYP2D6 on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer of tamsulosin recommends caution with use.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Consider withholding tamsulosin, if clinically appropriate, during receipt of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir. If this is not feasible, consider using an alternative COVID-19 therapy or reducing the tamsulosin dose for patients receiving a dose of 0.8 mg daily. Coadministration may increase tamsulosin exposure resulting in increased hypotension or orthostasis. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of nirogacestat with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of fluoxetine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Oritavancin: (Minor) Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of tamsulosin may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of paroxetine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and paroxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with paroxetine increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and tamsulosin, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of tamsulosin. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Minor) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as peginterferon alfa-2b. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as perphenazine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as perphenazine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Phentolamine: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Pindolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Posaconazole: (Major) Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin are increased with concomitant use of ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant treatment with ketoconazole resulted in an increase in the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, or voriconazole should be avoided.
Prazosin: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of propafenone with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and propafenone is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Propranolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Protease inhibitors: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor such as quinidine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
quiNINE: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of quinine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Therefore, concomitant use with drugs that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as quinine, should be avoided.
Ranolazine: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of ranolazine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Therefore, concomitant use with drugs that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as ranolazine, should be avoided.
Relacorilant: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and relacorilant is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A, such as relacorilant, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Ribociclib: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ribociclib is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ribociclib is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of rilzabrutinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ritlecitinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
Rolapitant: (Major) Use caution if tamsulosin and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for tamsulosin-related adverse effects. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and rolapitant is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant lasts for at least 7 days, and may last longer after single dose administration. The Cmax and AUC of another CYP2D6 substrate, dextromethorphan, were increased by 120% and 160%, respectively, on day 1 with rolapitant, and by 180% and 230%, respectively, on day 8 after rolapitant administration.
Saquinavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest dose of sildenafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of sildenafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of sildenafil and tamsulosin.
Silodosin: (Major) The pharmacodynamic effects of coadministration of silodosin and other alpha-blockers has not been studied. Additive effects on blood pressure or an increased incidence of adverse reactions common to alpha-blocker treatment is possible. Therefore, combined use of silodosin and other alpha-blockers is not recommended.
Sotalol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue tamsulosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and tamsulosin.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Terazosin: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Terbinafine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of terbinafine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and terbinafine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a CYP2D6 inhibitor such as thioridazine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Timolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Tipranavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Tucatinib: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and tucatinib is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as tucatinib, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest dose of vardenafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of vardenafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of vardenafil and tamsulosin.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as tamsulosin, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of tamsulosin when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Verapamil: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of clarithromycin. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin, should be avoided.
Voriconazole: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and voriconazole is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of voxelotor with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A inhibition.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor such as zafirlukast. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The adverse reaction profile of tamsulosin is based on reports from two US 13-week, placebo-controlled trials conducted in 1487 men. The most common adverse reactions reported in >= 2% of patients receiving tamsulosin (and numerically greater than placebo) included amblyopia, asthenia, back pain, chest pain (unspecified), cough increase, diarrhea, drowsiness, headache, infection, insomnia, libido decrease, nausea/vomiting, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis.Allergic-type reactions upon re-challenge with tamsulosin have been reported after marketing. These reactions have included skin rash (unspecified), pruritus, angioedema of tongue, lips and face, urticaria, and respiratory symptoms (unspecified).Even though tamsulosin causes less hypotension than other alpha-blockers, signs and symptoms of orthostasis were reported during two US short-term, placebo-controlled trials conducted in 1487 men. The most common symptoms included dizziness, syncope, symptomatic orthostatic hypotension, and vertigo. Symptomatic orthostatic hypotension was reported by 0.2% and 0.4% of patients in the 0.4-mg (n=502) and 0.8-mg (n=492) groups, respectively. Syncope was reported by 0.2%, 0.4%, and 0.6% of patients in the 0.4-mg, 0.8-mg, and placebo (n=493) groups, respectively. Vertigo was reported by 0.6% of patients in the 0.4-mg and placebo group and by 1% of patients in the 0.8-mg group. Dizziness was reported by 15%, 17%, and 10% of patients in the 0.4-mg, 0.8-mg, and placebo groups, respectively. Because orthostasis occurred more frequently in tamsulosin-treated patients than in placebo, patients should be monitored for signs of orthostasis.Tamsulosin may be associated with male impotence (erectile dysfunction). Ejaculation dysfunction (includes ejaculation failure, ejaculation decrease, and retrograde ejaculation) is a dose-related adverse reaction associated with tamsulosin therapy. During two U.S. short-term, placebo-controlled studies, about 42 of 502 patients (8.4%) in the 0.4-mg group experienced abnormal ejaculation whereas about 89 of 492 patients (18.1%) in the 0.8-mg group experienced abnormal ejaculation. Withdrawal from these clinical studies because of abnormal ejaculation was also dose-dependent. Eight (8) of 492 patients (1.6%) in the 0.8-mg group discontinued treatment whereas no patients in the 0.4-mg or placebo groups discontinued treatment. Rarely (probably less than 1 in 50,000 patients), tamsulosin, like other alpha-blockers, has been associated with priapism.Slight decreases in hemoglobin and red blood cells counts have been reported during oral therapy with tamsulosin.Stomach discomfort (dyspepsia) and bitter taste (dysgeusia) have been described in 2% to 3% of patients treated with oral tamsulosin.Tamsulosin is associated with an ocular condition known as intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS). It is not known if other selective alpha-1 receptor blockers are associated with this condition. Tamsulosin selectively blocks alpha-1A receptor subtypes whereas other selective alpha-1 receptor blockers do not distinguish between alpha-1 receptor subtypes 1A, 1B, or 1D. Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome has been reported during cataract surgery in some patients treated with tamsulosin and is a variant of small pupil syndrome. The syndrome is characterized by a triad of a features that distinguish it: 1) a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, 2) progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and 3) potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. Most reports were in patients taking tamsulosin when IFIS occurred, but in some cases, the alpha-1 blocker had been stopped prior to surgery. In most cases, tamsulosin had been discontinued within 2 to 14 days, but in a few cases, IFIS was reported after tamsulosin therapy was stopped for a longer period (5 weeks to 9 months). The mechanism of this syndrome is thought to be inhibition of alpha-1A receptors in the iris. Based on animal data in rabbits, which are purported to have similar iris alpha-1 receptor subtypes to human, tamsulosin selectively blocks the alpha-1A receptors in iris dilator smooth muscle. Since tamsulosin has a long half-life, this alpha-1A receptor blockade in the iris can cause a form of disuse atrophy of the iris dilator smooth muscle. Patients receiving tamsulosin often have poor pupil dilation; amblyopia is reported frequently. The patient's ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. The benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery has not been established.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    asthenia, back pain, headache, infection
    General Information
    The adverse reaction profile of tamsulosin is based on reports from 2 placebo-controlled trials conducted in 1,487 men. The most common general adverse reactions reported in 2% or more of subjects receiving tamsulosin at an incidence greater than placebo included headache (19.3% to 21.1%), infection (9% to 10.8%), asthenia (7.8% to 8.5%) and back pain (7% to 8.3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angioedema, dyspnea, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria
    General Information
    Allergic-type and dermatologic reactions have been reported postmarketing; some events have occurred again with drug rechallenge. These reactions have included skin rash (unspecified), pruritus, angioedema of tongue, lips and face, urticaria, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, and respiratory symptoms (unspecified). Infrequent reports of dyspnea and skin desquamation (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome) have been received during the postmarketing period. The appearance of skin rash (unspecified) occurs in an estimated 2% to 7% of treated patients based on published studies.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), dizziness, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, syncope, vertigo
    General Information
    Even though tamsulosin causes less hypotension than other alpha-blockers, signs and symptoms of orthostasis were reported during 2 short-term, placebo-controlled trials conducted in 1,487 men. The most commonly reported symptoms included dizziness, syncope, symptomatic orthostatic hypotension, and vertigo. Symptomatic orthostatic hypotension was reported by 0.2% and 0.4% of patients in the 0.4 mg (n=502) and 0.8 mg (n=492) groups, respectively. Syncope was reported by 0.2%, 0.4%, and 0.6% of patients in the 0.4 mg, 0.8 mg, and placebo (n=493) groups, respectively. Vertigo was reported by 0.6% of patients in the 0.4 mg and placebo group and by 1% of patients in the 0.8 mg group. Dizziness was reported by 14.9%, 17.1%, and 10.1% of patients in the 0.4 mg, 0.8 mg, and placebo groups, respectively. Because orthostasis occurs more frequently in tamsulosin-treated patients than in placebo, monitor for signs and symptoms of orthostasis. Positive orthostatic test results (i.e., 20 mmHg drop in systolic blood pressure, 10 mmHg drop in diastolic blood pressure, or 20 bpm increase in heart rate or symptoms of orthostasis when going from supine to standing position) have been reported in 6% to 19% of patients receiving tamsulosin. Other cardiovascular adverse effects reported in clinical trials have included chest pain (unspecified), affecting 4% of patients on 0.4 mg/day and 4.1% of patients on 0.8 mg/day. Infrequent reports of palpitations, hypotension, atrial fibrillation, arrhythmia exacerbation, and sinus tachycardia have been reported during the postmarketing period.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    drowsiness, insomnia
    General Information
    The adverse reaction profile of tamsulosin is based on reports from 2 placebo-controlled trials conducted in 1,487 men. The most common CNS adverse reactions reported in 2% or more of subjects receiving tamsulosin and at an incidence greater than placebo included drowsiness/somnolence (3% to 4.3%) and insomnia (1.4% to 2.4%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    ejaculation dysfunction, infertility, libido decrease, priapism
    General Information
    Ejaculation dysfunction (including ejaculation failure, ejaculation decrease, and retrograde ejaculation) is a dose-related adverse reaction associated with tamsulosin therapy. During 2 short-term, placebo-controlled studies, about 42 of 502 patients (8.4%) in the 0.4 mg group experienced abnormal ejaculation whereas about 89 of 492 patients (18.1%) in the 0.8 mg group experienced abnormal ejaculation. Withdrawal from these clinical studies because of abnormal ejaculation was dose-dependent. Eight of 492 patients (1.6%) in the 0.8 mg group discontinued treatment whereas no patients in the 0.4 mg or placebo groups discontinued treatment. Tamsulosin has shown the potential to cause infertility in animal studies. Studies revealed significantly reduced fertility in male animals, considered to be due to impairment of ejaculation, which was reversible. Studies in female animals showed significant reductions in fertility associated with impairments in fertilization. During clinical trials, libido decrease was reported by 5 of 502 patients (1%) in the 0.4 mg group and in 10 of 492 patients (2%) of the 0.8 mg group. In rare (less than 1 in 50,000) cases, tamsulosin, like other alpha adrenergic antagonists, has been associated with priapism (persistent painful penile erection unrelated to sexual activity); priapism has been reported postmarketing. If not treated properly and promptly, priapism can result in irreversible damage to the penile tissue and permanent erectile dysfunction. Advise patients about the serious nature of this condition and to seek emergency medical attention if priapism occurs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ejaculation dysfunction
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      priapism
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    The adverse reaction profile of tamsulosin is based on reports from 2 placebo-controlled trials conducted in 1,487 men. The most common gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions reported in 2% or more of subjects receiving tamsulosin at an incidence greater than placebo during clinical trials included: diarrhea (4.3% to 6.2%), nausea (2.6% to 3.9%), and tooth disorder (1.2% to 2%). Infrequent GI reports of constipation, xerostomia, and vomiting have been received during the postmarketing period.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, floppy iris syndrome, visual impairment
    General Information
    The most common ocular adverse reaction reported at an incidence greater than placebo during 2 placebo-controlled trials conducted in 1,487 men was blurred vision (0.2% to 2%). During postmarketing surveillance of tamsulosin, visual impairment has been reported. Ocular side effects may occur in people preparing for cataract or glaucoma surgery. Patients considering cataract or glaucoma surgery should be advised to tell their ophthalmologist that they have taken tamsulosin. Tamsulosin and other alpha-1 blockers have been associated with an ocular condition known as intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS), a variant of small pupil syndrome. The syndrome is characterized by a triad of features that distinguish it: 1) a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, 2) progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and 3) potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. Most reports were in patients taking tamsulosin when IFIS occurred, but in some cases, the alpha-1 blocker had been stopped prior to surgery. In most reports, tamsulosin had been discontinued within 2 to 14 days, but in a few cases, IFIS was reported after tamsulosin therapy was stopped for a longer period (5 weeks to 9 months). The mechanism of this syndrome is thought to be inhibition of alpha-1A receptors in the iris. Based on animal data in rabbits, which are purported to have similar iris alpha-1 receptor subtypes to humans, tamsulosin selectively blocks the alpha-1A receptors in iris dilator smooth muscle. Since tamsulosin has a long half-life, this alpha-1A receptor blockade in the iris can cause a form of disuse atrophy of the iris dilator smooth muscle. Patients receiving tamsulosin often have poor pupil dilation; amblyopia is reported frequently. The patient's ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. The benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract or glaucoma surgery has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      floppy iris syndrome
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, epistaxis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    The adverse reaction profile of tamsulosin is based on reports from 2 placebo-controlled trials conducted in 1,487 men. The most common respiratory adverse reactions reported in 2% or more of subjects receiving tamsulosin at an incidence greater than placebo included rhinitis (13.1% to 17.9%), pharyngitis (5.1% to 5.8%), cough increase (3.4% to 4.5%), and sinusitis (2.2% to 3.7%). Epistaxis was also reported during postmarketing surveillance of tamsulosin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Tamsulosin is an oral alpha-blocker that is administered once-daily for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Because tamsulosin is highly selective for alpha-1 receptors in the human prostate, it may cause lower rates of hypotension and orthostasis than other alpha-blocker medications. However, it has also been associated with higher rates of ejaculatory dysfunction than some other BPH treatment options. Unlike other alpha-blocking medications, tamsulosin is not indicated as a treatment for hypertension and should not be combined with other alpha-blockers. In clinical practice guidelines, tamsulosin is recommended as a first-line treatment option for bothersome, moderate to severe BPH. Since BPH and prostate cancer can often co-exist, patients starting tamsulosin should be screened for the presence of prostate cancer prior to initiating treatment, and at regular intervals afterward. Tamsulosin was FDA approved for BPH in 1997.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Tamsulosin is a selective antagonist at alpha-1-receptors. Alpha-1-receptors are involved in contraction of smooth muscle and are abundant in the prostate, prostatic capsule, prostatic urethra, and bladder neck. Three subtypes of alpha-1-receptors have been identified: Alpha-1a, alpha-1b, and alpha-1d. Alpha-1a receptors mediate human prostatic smooth muscle contraction whereas alpha-1b and alpha-1d-receptors are involved in vascular smooth muscle contraction. Both alpha-1a and alpha-1b-receptors exist in the prostate. However, approximately 70% of the alpha-receptors in the human prostate are of the alpha-1a subtype. Tamsulosin has 7 to 38-fold greater affinity for alpha-1a-receptors than for alpha-1b-receptors. Blockade of these receptors by tamsulosin can cause smooth muscles in the bladder neck and prostate to relax, thereby improving urine flow rate and reducing symptoms of BPH.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, tamsulosin is almost completely (greater than 90%) absorbed under fasting conditions. However, taking tamsulosin in a fasting state results in a 30% increase in bioavailability and a 40% to 70% increase in Cmax compared to taking tamsulosin after a meal. Taking tamsulosin on an empty stomach could potentially increase the risk of some side effects (i.e., orthostasis); therefore, tamsulosin should be taken with food. The time to maximum concentration is roughly 4 to 5 hours under fasted conditions and 6 to 7 hours when administered with food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetic parameters of tamsulosin were compared in 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or B) and 8 normal subjects. While a change in the overall plasma concentration of tamsulosin was observed as a result of altered binding to alpha-1 acid glycoprotein, the unbound (active) concentration of tamsulosin did not change significantly, with a 32% change in intrinsic clearance of unbound tamsulosin. Therefore, patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh class A or B) do not need adjustments in dosage. Tamsulosin pharmacokinetics has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In a study comparing 6 subjects with normal renal function (CrCl greater than 90 mL/minute) to 6 subjects with mild to severe renal impairment (CrCl 10 to less than 70 mL/minute), the unbound (active) concentration of tamsulosin, as well as the intrinsic clearance, remained constant despite alterations in binding to alpha-1 acid glycoprotein. Therefore, patients with renal impairment do not require dose adjustments. The pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin has not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 10 mL/minute). Tamsulosin is highly protein bound and is not likely to be significantly removed during hemodialysis.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    A cross-study comparison indicates that the AUC and half-life for tamsulosin may be slightly prolonged in geriatric males relative to young, healthy male volunteers. Intrinsic clearance is diminished with age, resulting in a 40% overall higher AUC in subjects aged 55 to 75 years compared to subjects aged 20 to 32 years.
  Text
  Tamsulosin is administered orally. In the systemic circulation, it is extensively bound to plasma proteins (94% to 99%), primarily to alpha1-acid glycoprotein (AAG). In clinical studies, the mean steady-state apparent volume of distribution after intravenous administration was 16 L, suggesting distribution into extracellular fluids in the body. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Metabolites undergo extensive conjugation to glucuronide or sulfate prior to excretion in the urine. Less than 10% of the dose is excreted unchanged in the urine. The apparent elimination half-life of tamsulosin is 9 to 13 hours in healthy volunteers and 14 to 15 hours in the target population.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, CYP3A4
Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. Strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 may increase tamsulosin exposure. The effects of moderate CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors on tamsulosin pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Oral capsules:
Administer approximately 30 minutes after the same meal each day.
Per the package label, the capsules should be swallowed whole and not crushed, chewed, or opened. However, trials with pediatric patients have reported that the capsules were opened if the patient had difficulty swallowing or if required to obtain the prescribed dosage. The contents of a capsule (i.e., granules) were mixed with cool, soft food (e.g., yogurt or pudding) or with juice. If tamsulosin is administered via this method, instruct the patient not to chew, crush, or dissolve the granules as these actions may result in rapid drug release and serious side effects.
The administration of tamsulosin through nasogastric, gastric, or jejunostomy tubes has not been formally evaluated by the manufacturer; reports suggest that the granules may adhere to the sides of the tube, which complicates administration and increases the risk of tube blockage.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    0.8 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    0.8 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh Class A or B): No dosage adjustment is needed.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh Class C): No dosage recommendations are available. Tamsulosin has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed. Patients with renal impairment should be monitored carefully for exaggerated hypotensive effects (e.g., first dose effect). Patients with end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 10 mL/minute/1.73 m2) have not been specifically studied.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis:
No dosage adjustment appears to be needed. Patients with renal impairment should be monitored carefully for exaggerated hypotensive effects (e.g., first dose effect). Tamsulosin is highly protein bound and is not likely to be significantly removed during hemodialysis. Patients with end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 10 mL/minute/1.73 m2) have not been specifically studied.
