=== Opicapone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5216)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Opicapone is an oral catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor used once-daily as adjunctive treatment to levodopa-carbidopa in adults with Parkinson's disease experiencing 'off' episodes.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 50 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agitation, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dyskinesia, hallucinations, insomnia, psychosis, sudden sleep onset, weight loss, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, syncope

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Opicapone is contraindicated in patients with pheochromocytoma, catecholamine-secreting paraganglioma, or other catecholamine-secreting neoplasms.

Brand Names
  - Ongentys

Dosage Forms
  - Ongentys 25mg Capsule
  - Ongentys 50mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        50 mg PO once daily at bedtime.
    Heading
    For the treatment of "off" episodes in Parkinson disease as an adjunct to carbidopa/levodopa

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    catecholamine-secreting paraganglioma, pheochromocytoma
    General Information
    Opicapone is contraindicated in patients with pheochromocytoma, catecholamine-secreting paraganglioma, or other catecholamine-secreting neoplasms.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, sleep disorder
    General Information
    Prior to initiating treatment, advise patients of the potential for drowsiness while taking opicapone and inquire about factors that may increase the risk for somnolence, such as a sleep disorder (e.g., narcolepsy, sleep apnea), alcohol use, or coadministration with other CNS depressants. Some Parkinson disease patients taking dopaminergic agents, including opicapone, have reported sudden sleep onset while engaged in activities of daily living, such as driving. In some cases, auto accidents or other harmful events have occurred. Some patients do not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, and believe they are alert immediately prior to the event; therefore, patients should use caution when driving or operating machinery or performing other activities requiring coordination and concentration. Reassessment for somnolence is necessary throughout therapy. Patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities. Consider discontinuing opicapone in patients that develop significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.). If a decision is made to continue the drug under these circumstances, patients should be advised to avoid driving or other potentially dangerous activities.
    Headline
    dyskinesia
    General Information
    Opicapone may potentiate the dopaminergic side effects of levodopa and may cause or exacerbate pre-existing dyskinesia. Although decreasing the dose of levodopa may ameliorate this side effect, many patients can experience frequent dyskinesia despite a reduction in their dose of levodopa.
    Headline
    psychotic disorder
    General Information
    In general, patients with a major psychotic disorder (e.g., schizophrenia) should not be treated with opicapone because of the risk of exacerbating psychosis. Patients may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes, which may be severe, including psychotic-like behavior during opicapone treatment. Hallucinations have also been reported in patients receiving opicapone. In addition, certain medications used to treat psychosis may exacerbate the symptoms of Parkinson disease and may decrease the effectiveness of opicapone.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the developmental risks associated with opicapone in human pregnancy. Oral administration of opicapone in animals resulted in fetal abnormalities at clinically relevant plasma exposures. Opicapone is always given with carbidopa; levodopa, which is known to cause developmental toxicity in rabbits; however, the developmental toxicity of opicapone in combination with carbidopa; levodopa in animals was not assessed. The effects of opicapone in labor and delivery are unknown.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Opicapone is extensively metabolized in the liver, and exposure is increased in hepatic impairment. Avoid use in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. A dosage adjustment is recommended in people with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B). No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    When considering the use of opicapone, assess the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding, along with the potential risks of infant drug exposure, and the clinical need of the mother. It is not known if opicapone is present in human breast milk, and the effects on the breastfed infant and milk production are not known; however, the drug and its metabolites are present in the milk of lactating rats. The COMT inhibitor entacapone may be an alternative to opicapone during breast-feeding, although there is a lack of safety data. If the use of opicapone or other COMT inhibitor is required, the breastfed infant should be monitored for commonly encountered adverse effects of levodopa or COMT inhibitor therapy including nausea, sedation, and diarrhea.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Renal elimination of unchanged opicapone is minor; however, use should be avoided in patients with renal failure or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute). No dosage adjustments are required in patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment. However, patients with severe renal impairment should be monitored for adverse reactions due to the potential for increased drug exposure. Opicapone should be discontinued if tolerability issues occur.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the developmental risks associated with opicapone in human pregnancy. Oral administration of opicapone in animals resulted in fetal abnormalities at clinically relevant plasma exposures. Opicapone is always given with carbidopa; levodopa, which is known to cause developmental toxicity in rabbits; however, the developmental toxicity of opicapone in combination with carbidopa; levodopa in animals was not assessed. The effects of opicapone in labor and delivery are unknown.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    When considering the use of opicapone, assess the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding, along with the potential risks of infant drug exposure, and the clinical need of the mother. It is not known if opicapone is present in human breast milk, and the effects on the breastfed infant and milk production are not known; however, the drug and its metabolites are present in the milk of lactating rats. The COMT inhibitor entacapone may be an alternative to opicapone during breast-feeding, although there is a lack of safety data. If the use of opicapone or other COMT inhibitor is required, the breastfed infant should be monitored for commonly encountered adverse effects of levodopa or COMT inhibitor therapy including nausea, sedation, and diarrhea.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
ALFentanil: (Major) COMT inhibitors may cause additive sedation or hypotension with alfentanil. Monitor patients receiving alfentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Amitriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Amobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Amoxapine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as heterocyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Atropine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Azelastine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine is combined with other CNS depressants including COMT inhibitors. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine is combined with other CNS depressants including COMT inhibitors. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Baclofen: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Barbiturates: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors, such as opicapone, may cause additive sedation and somnolence. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Benzodiazepines: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Butorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sodium oxybate, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Opicapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including cannabidiol, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors, such as cannabidiol, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Opicapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including cenobamate, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors, such as opicapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Clemastine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
cloBAZam: (Major) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when clobazam is combined with opicapone, a COMT inhibitor. Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, may cause drowsiness or other CNS effects. COMT inhibitors may cause drowsiness and have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
clonazePAM: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
cloNIDine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including clonidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation and hypotension. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Clorazepate: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Desipramine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Opicapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including deutetrabenazine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors, such as opicapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including dexmedetomidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery from dexmedetomidine administration.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diazePAM: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), such as dobutamine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), such as dopamine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Doxepin: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
droNABinol: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including dronabinol, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
droPERidol: (Major) Use droperidol with caution in patients taking COMT inhibitors due to the possibility of additive sedation. Droperidol produces marked tranquilization and sedation; reduced dosages may be needed in debilitated patients, particularly when combined with other CNS depressants.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Estazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Eszopiclone: (Major) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone or concomitantly administered drugs with sedative properties (e.g., COMT inhibitors) should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment from eszopiclone may be increased during coadministration, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Etomidate: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including flibanserin, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Flurazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and opicapone. Concomitant use of gabapentin with opicapone may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as opicapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
General anesthetics: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including guanfacine, due to the possibility of additive sedation or hypotension. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Haloperidol: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, haloperidol and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to haloperidol. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Heterocyclic antidepressants: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as heterocyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Imipramine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of isocarboxazid, which is a non-selective MAO inhibitor, and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. The combination of a COMT inhibitor and isocarboxazid may result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism, which may lead to hypertensive crisis or other adverse effects.
Isoflurane: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as isoproterenol, should be administered cautiously in patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Ketamine: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Because of the potential of lasmiditan to cause sedation, as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions, lasmiditan should be used with caution in combination with other drugs having CNS depressant effects, such as opicapone. COMT inhibitors, such as opicapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Opicapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including lemborexant, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors, such as opicapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Linezolid: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of COMT inhibitors in combination with linezoid, which has non-selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor activity. Typically, at least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of a non-selective MAOI and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Consider an alternative to linezolid if possible. Monoamine oxidase and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the two major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. It is theoretically possible that the coadministration of a COMT inhibitor with linezolid would result in inhibition of normal catecholamine metabolism and possible toxicity.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Opicapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including lofexidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors, such as opicapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
LORazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Loxapine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, loxapine and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider if an atypical antipsychotic is a potential alternative to loxapine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Meclizine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Melatonin: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including melatonin, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects are possible during coadministration of COMT inhibitors and meprobamate. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Methohexital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as methyldopa, should be administered cautiously in patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Additive sedation and hypotension can occur. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Methylphenidate: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Coadministration of COMT inhibitors and metoclopramide should be avoided if possible. Metoclopramide may interfere with the effectiveness of COMT inhibitors. Metoclopramide has dopamine antagonist properties while COMT inhibitors increase the availability of catecholamine concentrations (e.g., dopamine) in the central nervous system.
Midazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Mirtazapine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as mirtazapine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Molindone: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Nefazodone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as nefazodone, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as norepinephrine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Nortriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Opiate Agonists-Antagonists: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oxazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
PENTobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Opicapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including perampanel, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors, such as opicapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Perphenazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of phenelzine, which is a non-selective MAO inhibitor, and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. The combination of a COMT inhibitor and phenelzine may result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism, which may lead to hypertensive crisis or other adverse effects.
PHENobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including scopolamine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Pimozide: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, pimozide and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic instead of pimozide if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Coadministration of COMT inhibitors and pramipexole may cause additive sedation. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use of pregabalin with COMT inhibitors may cause additive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Primidone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Procarbazine: (Major) Procarbazine has some non-selective MAO inhibiting activity. Typically, at least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of the non-selective MAOI and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Patients should ordinarily not receive COMT-inhibitors in combination with agents with non-selective MAO inhibiting activity. MAO and COMT are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. It is theoretically possible that the combination of COMT-inhibitors and a non-selective MAOI would result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Propofol: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Protriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Quazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including ramelteon, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Remifentanil: (Major) COMT inhibitors may cause additive sedation or hypotension with remifentanil. Monitor patients receiving remifentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Remimazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including scopolamine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Secobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sodium oxybate, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Opicapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including stiripentol, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors, such as opicapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
SUFentanil: (Major) COMT inhibitors may cause additive sedation or hypotension with sufentanil. Monitor patients receiving sufentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Opicapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including suvorexant, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors, such as opicapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tasimelteon, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Temazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Opicapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tetrabenazine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Thalidomide: (Major) The use of thalidomide and COMT inhibitors may cause an additive sedative effect and should be avoided if possible. If concurrent treatment is needed, prescribers should monitor patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Thioridazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Thiothixene: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, thiothixene and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to thiothixene. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as tizanidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of tranylcypromine, which is a non-selective MAO inhibitor, and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. The combination of a COMT inhibitor and tranylcypromine may result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism, which may lead to hypertensive crisis or other adverse effects.
traZODone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as trazodone, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Triazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Trimipramine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including valerian, due to the possibility of additive sedation.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including valproic acid, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Zaleplon: (Major) Additive CNS depressant effects are possible during concurrent use of COMT inhibitors and zaleplon. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for additive side effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Zolpidem: (Major) COMT inhibitors such as entacapone and tolcapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including zolpidem, due to the possibility of additive sedation. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for additive side effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. For Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets, reduce the dose to 1.75 mg/night.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    agitation, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dyskinesia, hallucinations, insomnia, psychosis, sudden sleep onset
    General Information
    Individuals may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes, such as psychosis, during treatment with antiparkinsonian medications. Delusions, agitation, and aggression occurred in 1% of subjects during premarketing studies of opicapone in adults with Parkinson's disease. In addition, the following centrally-mediated effects occurred in at least 2% of subjects receiving opicapone and more frequently than in subjects receiving placebo: hallucinations (3%), insomnia (3%), dyskinesia (20%), and dizziness (3%). Additionally, confusion (confusional state) has been reported during postmarketing surveillance. Individuals taking dopaminergic medications or medications that increase levodopa exposure, including opicapone, have reported sudden sleep onset while engaged in activities of daily living, such as driving. In some cases, auto accidents or other harmful events have occurred. Some individuals do not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, and believe they are alert immediately prior to the event; therefore, individuals should use caution when driving or operating machinery or performing other tasks that require alertness while receiving opicapone. Consider discontinuing opicapone in individuals who develop significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities of daily living (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.). If opicapone is continued under these circumstances, individuals should be advised to avoid driving or other potentially dangerous activities.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sudden sleep onset
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    constipation, weight loss, xerostomia
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of opicapone in adults with Parkinson's disease, the following adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving opicapone and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo: constipation (6%), xerostomia (3%), and weight loss (4%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, syncope
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of opicapone in adults with Parkinson disease, the following adverse cardiovascular effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving opicapone and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo: hypertension (3%) and hypotension/orthostatic hypotension/pre-syncope/syncope (5%). Opicapone enhances levodopa bioavailability and, therefore, may increase the occurrence of orthostatic hypotension or syncope. Advise patients that they may develop orthostatic hypotension with possible symptoms such as dizziness, nausea, syncope, or sweating, and use opicapone cautiously in patients with pre-existing hypotension and those at risk of syncope. Advise patients to rise slowly, especially after long periods of sitting or lying down. Falls have been reported with postmarketing experience. Monitor patients for hypotension (orthostatic and non-orthostatic). If these adverse reactions occur, consider discontinuing opicapone or adjusting the dosage of other medications that can lower blood pressure.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    impulse control symptoms
    General Information
    Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone have reported impulse control symptoms, including intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, intense urges to spend money uncontrollably, or other intense urges. Patients may be unable to control these urges while taking one or more of the medications that are used for the treatment of Parkinson's disease and that increase central dopaminergic tone, including opicapone. Causality to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases, the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Because patients may not recognize these behaviors as abnormal it is important for practitioners to inquire periodically about new or worsening impulse control symptoms in patients receiving opicapone. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving opicapone. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impulse control symptoms
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms, withdrawal
    General Information
    When discontinuing opicapone, monitor patients and consider adjustments of other dopaminergic therapies as needed. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms have been associated with dose reductions and abrupt withdrawal of other dopaminergic medications. Symptoms have included hyperthermia, fever, muscle rigidity, involuntary movements, altered consciousness/mental status changes, delirium, autonomic dysfunction, tachycardia, tachypnea, sweating, hypo- or hypertension, and abnormal laboratory findings (e.g., creatine phosphokinase (CPK) elevation, leukocytosis, myoglobinuria, and increased serum myoglobin). The early diagnosis of this condition is important for the appropriate management of these patients, which includes intensive medical monitoring and management. During clinical trial evaluation of opicapone in adults with Parkinson's disease, elevated creatine phosphokinase occurred in 5% of patients receiving opicapone and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Opicapone is an oral catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor used once-daily as adjunctive treatment to levodopa-carbidopa in adults with Parkinson's disease experiencing 'off' episodes. Clinically, COMT inhibitors improve levodopa availability in the CNS, thereby prolonging the motor response to levodopa treatment. The adjunct use of opicapone allows the patient's dosage of levodopa to be lowered, which results in a decrease in the incidence or severity of levodopa dose-related side effects (e.g., dyskinesia, nausea, etc.). Similar to other dopaminergic agents, there is the potential for impulse control symptoms, including intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, intense urges to spend money uncontrollably, or other intense urges while taking opicapone. Because patients may not recognize these behaviors as abnormal it is important for practitioners to inquire periodically about new or worsening impulse control symptoms. In addition, there have been reports of sudden episodes of falling asleep without prior warning of sleepiness while engaged in activities of daily living in patients taking dopaminergic agents. Patients should be advised of this effect and be instructed to use extreme caution when driving or operating machinery or performing other tasks that require alertness while receiving opicapone. Opicapone was FDA approved in April 2020.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Opicapone is a reversible, selective inhibitor of peripheral catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). Opicapone is always administered with carbidopa; levodopa because COMT inhibitors have no inherent antiparkinsonian effects. COMT is an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of the methyl group of S-adenyl-L-methionine to the phenolic group of substrates that contain a catechol structure, including dopa, catecholamines (dopamine, epinephrine, and norepinephrine), and their metabolites. In the presence of a decarboxylase inhibitor (e.g., carbidopa), COMT becomes the major metabolizing enzyme for converting levodopa to a levodopa metabolite (3-O-methyldopa), which subsequently reduces the efficacy of levodopa. Inhibition of COMT by opicapone and inhibition of decarboxylase by carbidopa results in more sustained plasma concentrations of levodopa and markedly lower 3-O-methyldopa concentrations. As a result, more levodopa is available for diffusion into the CNS where it is converted to dopamine, thereby increasing the ability of dopamine to treat motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
 
Opicapone causes inhibition of COMT activity in erythrocytes. The maximum inhibition was 84%, which was maintained at more than 65% over a 24-hour dosing interval in patients with Parkinson's disease. Following discontinuation of treatment, COMT inhibition slowly returns to baseline levels, with more than 35% inhibition still observed 5 days after the last dose. In a cardiac electrophysiology study at a dose 16 times the recommended dose, opicapone did not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After administration of a single 50 mg dose, the median time to maximum opicapone plasma concentrations was 2 hours (range: 1 to 4 hours). Following a moderate-fat/moderate calorie meal, the mean peak plasma concentration for opicapone decreased 62%, the mean overall plasma exposure (AUC) decreased 31%, and the time to maximum concentrations was delayed by 4 hours. Therefore, patients should not eat food for 1 hour before and for at least 1 hour after taking a dose of opicapone.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The single-dose pharmacokinetics of opicapone was evaluated in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh A) and moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment. In mild hepatic impairment, the mean overall opicapone plasma exposure increased by 35%. In subjects with moderate impairment, the mean overall plasma exposure increased by 84%. Therefore, dosage adjustments are required in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. Because opicapone has not been studied in severe hepatic impairment, the drug should not be used in this population.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Based on population pharmacokinetic analyses, no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of opicapone were observed in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/minute) compared to those with normal renal function. Patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) have not been studied; therefore, opicapone should not be used in these populations.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the kinetics of opicapone were observed based on age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the kinetics of opicapone were observed based on gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the kinetics of opicapone were observed based on ethnicity or race (i.e., Japanese, Caucasian, Asian, and Black).
  Text
  Opicapone is administered orally. The drug demonstrates dose-proportional pharmacokinetics within the therapeutic range. The kinetics of opicapone are similar in Parkinson's patients and healthy subjects. Opicapone is highly protein-bound (greater than 99%). Although opicapone is highly protein-bound, the drug does not affect protein binding of warfarin, diazepam, digoxin, or tolbutamide in vitro. Sulphation is the primary metabolic pathway, with other metabolic routes including glucuronidation, methylation, reduction, and glutathione conjugation. Approximately 70% of a dose is recovered in feces (22% as unchanged), 20% in expired air, and 5% in urine (less than 1% as unchanged). The mean elimination half-life is 1 to 2 hours.
 
There is strong COMT enzyme inhibition by opicapone over 24 hours, making the drug suitable for once-daily administration. The peak levodopa exposure is increased by 43% to 44% and the overall levodopa exposure is increased by 62% to 94% during once-daily administration of opicapone and administration of carbidopa-levodopa every 3 to 4 hours, compared to administration of carbidopa-levodopa alone.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: None
Opicapone is a substrate of P-gp, BCRP, MRP2, OATP1B3, and OATP2B1; however, no clinically significant transporter-mediated interactions are expected. Opicapone is not an inhibitor of P-gp, BCRP, OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, OCT2, OATB1B3, BSEP, and is not an inhibitor or inducer of major CYP isoenzymes.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Capsules
Administer once daily at bedtime.
Patients should not eat food for 1 hour before and for at least 1 hour after administration.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, skip the missed dose. Take the next dose at the scheduled time the next day.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    50 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    50 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A): No dosage adjustments required.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B): Reduce dose to 25 mg PO once daily at bedtime.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C): Avoid use.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 15 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustments are needed.
CrCl less than 15 mL/minute: Avoid use.
