=== Azilsartan — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3719)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Azilsartan medoxomil is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist approved for the treatment of hypertension either as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents in adults.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 80 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, syncope, asthenia, dizziness, fatigue, azotemia, oliguria, renal failure (unspecified)

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Individuals with heart failure or post-myocardial infarction treated with angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) therapy commonly experience blood pressure reduction.

AZILSARTAN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Edarbi

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of hypertension, either alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents

Oral dosage
Adults


80 mg PO once daily, initially. Consider an initial dose of 40 mg PO once daily in patients receiving high-dose diuretic therapy. Usual dose range: 40 to 80 mg/day.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Individuals with heart failure or post-myocardial infarction treated with angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) therapy commonly experience blood pressure reduction. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued once blood pressure has stabilized.

ACE inhibitor induced angioedema, ARB induced angioedema


Avoid use of azilsartan in individuals with a history of ARB induced angioedema. Exercise caution when using azilsartan in individuals with a history of ACE inhibitor induced angioedema. While angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) have been suggested as potential alternatives because they are less likely than angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors to precipitate angioedema, anaphylactic reactions and angioedema have been reported in individuals receiving ARBs, including in individuals with a prior history of ACE inhibitor induced angioedema. ARBs do not cause bradykinin accumulation, which may account for the reduction in the risk of angioedema. Individuals with a history of angioedema with an ACE inhibitor may be started on an ARB 6 weeks after discontinuation of the ACE inhibitor. Since Black people are at increased risk of angioedema, ARBs may be preferred over ACE inhibitors in this population.


hyponatremia, hypovolemia


In individuals with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as individuals with hypovolemia or hyponatremia receiving high doses of diuretics, symptomatic hypotension may occur with azilsartan. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to azilsartan administration, or start treatment with a reduced dose under close medical supervision.


diabetes mellitus, renal disease


Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) can cause hyperkalemia. Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, and concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, and/or potassium-containing salt substitutes. Individuals whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., individuals with renal artery stenosis, chronic renal disease, severe heart failure, or hypovolemia) may be at risk for developing acute renal failure on ARB therapy. Consider withholding or discontinuing ARB therapy in individuals who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function while receiving an ARB. Monitor renal function and potassium periodically in individuals receiving ARB therapy. Dialysis is also a risk factor for symptomatic hypotension with ARBs.


diabetes when coadministered with certain medications


Azilsartan is contraindicated in individuals with diabetes when coadministered with certain medications, specifically aliskiren.


major surgery


Due to renin-angiotensin system blockade, individuals treated with angiotensin II receptor blockers and undergoing major surgery and anesthesia may experience hypotension, which is very rarely severe, such that it may require the use of intravenous fluids and vasopressors.


children, infants, neonates, premature neonates


Use of azilsartan is not recommended in children younger than 2 years. It is not known whether post-natal use of angiotensin receptor blockers in neonates, infants, and children younger than 2 years, before maturation of kidney function is complete, has a long-term deleterious effect on the kidney. Nephrogenesis is thought to be complete around birth; however, maturation of other aspects of kidney function, such as glomerular filtration and tubular function, may continue until approximately 2 years of age. The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes azilsartan as a potentially inappropriate medication for use in premature neonates and neonates and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use azilsartan with caution and appropriate monitoring.


pregnancy


Once pregnancy is detected, discontinue azilsartan as soon as possible. Use of medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists, are generally not recommended for use during pregnancy. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Exposure to these agents in pregnancy may result in adverse outcomes including fetal death, hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, craniofacial abnormalities, fetal limb contractures, hypoplastic lung development, anuria, fetal growth restriction, and both reversible and irreversible renal failure. Additionally, cases of oligohydramnios and anhydramnios have been reported. Development of oligohydramnios may be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Use of RAS inhibitors during the first trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of fetal harm, such as congenital malformations; however, available data are conflicting. In rare cases when another antihypertensive agent cannot be used to treat a pregnant patient, serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue amlodipine; olmesartan unless it is considered life-saving for the pregnant individual. Oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury.


embryo-fetal toxicity, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality.


neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Closely observe neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia. If oliguria or hypotension occurs, blood pressure and renal perfusion support may be required, as well as exchange transfusion or dialysis to reverse hypotension and/or support decreased renal function.


breast-feeding


Use azilsartan with caution during breast-feeding. There is limited information regarding the presence of azilsartan in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. An alternative therapy may be considered. Due to low levels in breast milk, guidelines generally consider captopril and enalapril to be compatible with breast-feeding unless high doses are required. In addition, benazepril and quinapril are excreted in low quantities into breast milk and have been suggested as options during breast-feeding.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Once pregnancy is detected, discontinue azilsartan as soon as possible. Use of medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists, are generally not recommended for use during pregnancy. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Exposure to these agents in pregnancy may result in adverse outcomes including fetal death, hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, craniofacial abnormalities, fetal limb contractures, hypoplastic lung development, anuria, fetal growth restriction, and both reversible and irreversible renal failure. Additionally, cases of oligohydramnios and anhydramnios have been reported. Development of oligohydramnios may be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Use of RAS inhibitors during the first trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of fetal harm, such as congenital malformations; however, available data are conflicting. In rare cases when another antihypertensive agent cannot be used to treat a pregnant patient, serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue amlodipine; olmesartan unless it is considered life-saving for the pregnant individual. Oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury.


Interactions

Acarbose: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Aliskiren: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving angiotensin II receptor antagonists should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. Patients receiving amifostine at doses recommended for chemotherapy should have antihypertensive therapy interrupted 24 hours preceding administration of amifostine. If the antihypertensive cannot be stopped, patients should not receive amifostine.
aMILoride: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Angiotensin II: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Minor) Use caution if azilsartan and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for a possible decrease in the efficacy of azilsartan. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares the same drug interactions. Azilsartan is a CYP2C9 substrate and aprepitant is a CYP2C9 inducer. Administration of a CYP2C9 substrate, tolbutamide, on days 1, 4, 8, and 15 with a 3-day regimen of oral aprepitant (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg) decreased the tolbutamide AUC by 23% on day 4, 28% on day 8, and 15% on day 15. The AUC of tolbutamide was decreased by 8% on day 2, 16% on day 4, 15% on day 8, and 10% on day 15 when given prior to oral administration of aprepitant 40 mg on day 1, and on days 2, 4, 8, and 15. The effects of aprepitant on tolbutamide were not considered significant. When a 3-day regimen of aprepitant (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg) given to healthy patients on stabilized chronic warfarin therapy (another CYP2C9 substrate), a 34% decrease in S-warfarin trough concentrations was noted, accompanied by a 14% decrease in the INR at five days after completion of aprepitant.
ARIPiprazole: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and baxdrostat are used together. Both medications increase serum potassium concentrations and concomitant use may increase the risk for hyperkalemia.
Benazepril: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Due to brexpiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Coadministration of furosemide and Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may result in severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. Hyponatremia or hypovolemia predisposes patients to acute hypotensive episodes following initiation of ACE inhibitor therapy. While ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics are routinely administered together in the treatment of heart failure, if an ACE inhibitor is to be administered to a patient receiving furosemide, initial doses should be conservative.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Calcium Phosphate, Supersaturated: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Captopril: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of cyclosporine and an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, like azilsartan, may increase the risk of hyperkalemia and reduced renal function. In response to cyclosporine-induced renal afferent vasoconstriction and glomerular hypoperfusion, angiotensin II is required to maintain an adequate glomerular filtration rate. Inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) could reduce renal function acutely. Several cases of acute renal failure have been associated with the addition of enalapril to cyclosporine therapy in renal transplant patients. Also, cyclosporine can cause hyperkalemia, and inhibition of angiotensin II leads to reduced aldosterone concentrations, which can increase the serum potassium concentration. Closely monitor renal function and serum potassium concentrations in patients receiving cyclosporine concurrently with azilsartan.
Dabrafenib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of dabrafenib, a CYP29 inducer, and azilsartan, a CYP2C9 substrate, may result in decreased levels of azilsartan; avoid concomitant use if possible. If another agent cannot be substituted and coadministration of these agents is unavoidable, monitor patients closely for loss of azilsartan efficacy.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when administering digoxin with drugs that may cause a significant deterioration in renal function including angiotensin II receptor antagonists. A decline in glomerular filtration or tubular secretion may impair the excretion of digoxin. Close monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations is essential to avoid enhanced toxicity.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if ARBs are used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if ARBs are used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if ARBs are used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if ARBs are used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if ARBs are used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Eplerenone: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists can enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormonal contraceptives should be monitored for antihypertensive effectiveness.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Coadministration of furosemide and Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may result in severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. Hyponatremia or hypovolemia predisposes patients to acute hypotensive episodes following initiation of ACE inhibitor therapy. While ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics are routinely administered together in the treatment of heart failure, if an ACE inhibitor is to be administered to a patient receiving furosemide, initial doses should be conservative.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if finerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosinopril: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Coadministration of furosemide and Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may result in severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. Hyponatremia or hypovolemia predisposes patients to acute hypotensive episodes following initiation of ACE inhibitor therapy. While ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics are routinely administered together in the treatment of heart failure, if an ACE inhibitor is to be administered to a patient receiving furosemide, initial doses should be conservative.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) In general, antipsychotics like haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and angiotensin II receptor antagonists as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists can enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Indapamide: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Iodine; Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when isocarboxazid is combined with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of isocarboxazid with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider during concurrent use of isocarboxazid and an angiotensin II receptor antagonist.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Lisdexamfetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lisinopril: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant angiotensin II receptor blocker use; reduce the lithium dose based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response. Concomitant use may increase steady-state lithium concentrations.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Coadministration of furosemide and Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may result in severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. Hyponatremia or hypovolemia predisposes patients to acute hypotensive episodes following initiation of ACE inhibitor therapy. While ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics are routinely administered together in the treatment of heart failure, if an ACE inhibitor is to be administered to a patient receiving furosemide, initial doses should be conservative.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Sulfate; Sodium Sulfate: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARB) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of methohexital and antihypertensive agents increases the risk of developing hypotension.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Moexipril: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARB) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Nefazodone: (Minor) Although relatively infrequent, nefazodone may cause orthostatic hypotension in some patients; this effect may be additive with antihypertensive agents. Blood pressure monitoring is recommended. Dependent upon clinical response, dosage adjustments of either drug may be necessary.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Azilsartan is metabolized by CYP2C9; oritavancin is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in elevated azilsartan plasma concentrations; however, no clinically relevant drug interactions were observed when azilsartan was given in combination with fluconazole, a potent CYP2C9 inhibitor. If these drugs are administered concurrently, blood pressure should be monitored closely.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists who are susceptible to hypotension.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perindopril: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when phenelzine is combined with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of phenelzine with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider during concurrent use of phenelzine and angiotensin II receptor antagonists.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Ascorbic Acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists.
Potassium Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Gluconate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and angiotensin II receptor antagonists as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and angiotensin II receptor antagonists as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Potassium: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of pramlintide by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with pramlintide should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of prazosin and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs). Concomitant use may produce additive hypotension and increase the risk for syncope. The risk for significant hypotension and syncope is greatest when adding an antihypertensive to a regimen that includes high dose prazosin and following a rapid dosage increase. To minimize the risk for adverse effects, consider reducing the prazosin dose to 1 to 2 mg three times a day during initiation of a new antihypertensive and then retitrating prazosin based on clinical response.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Quinapril: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Ramipril: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when rasagiline is combined with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during coadministration. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARB) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor antagonists concomitantly.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sparsentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if angiotensin II receptor antagonists and spironolactone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if angiotensin II receptor antagonists and spironolactone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperkalemia if concomitant use of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist and trimethoprim is necessary. Avoid concomitant use and consider alternative antibiotic therapy in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia, including patients older than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim. Amongst patients older than 65 years, concomitant use has been associated with a 2- to 7-fold increased risk of significant hyperkalemia compared to other antibiotics. Trimethoprim has a potassium-sparing effect on the distal nephron and may induce hyperkalemia, especially in those with pre-existing risk factors.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Tolvaptan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Coadministration of furosemide and Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may result in severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. Hyponatremia or hypovolemia predisposes patients to acute hypotensive episodes following initiation of ACE inhibitor therapy. While ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics are routinely administered together in the treatment of heart failure, if an ACE inhibitor is to be administered to a patient receiving furosemide, initial doses should be conservative.
Trandolapril: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) The use of hypotensive agents and tranylcypromine is contraindicated by the manufacturer of tranylcypromine because the effects of hypotensive agents may be markedly potentiated.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor antagonists concomitantly with triamterene. Concomitant use may result in hyperkalemia.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor antagonists concomitantly with triamterene. Concomitant use may result in hyperkalemia.
Trimethoprim: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperkalemia if concomitant use of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist and trimethoprim is necessary. Avoid concomitant use and consider alternative antibiotic therapy in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia, including patients older than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim. Amongst patients older than 65 years, concomitant use has been associated with a 2- to 7-fold increased risk of significant hyperkalemia compared to other antibiotics. Trimethoprim has a potassium-sparing effect on the distal nephron and may induce hyperkalemia, especially in those with pre-existing risk factors.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

Treatment with azilsartan is well-tolerated with an overall incidence of adverse reactions similar to placebo. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse events in placebo-controlled monotherapy and combination therapy trials was 2.4 % (19/801) for placebo, 2.2% (24/1072) for azilsartan 40 mg, and 2.7% (29/1074) for azilsartan 80 mg. Generally, adverse reactions were mild, not dose-related and similar regardless of age, gender, and race.
 
In July 2010, the FDA released a Medwatch alert announcing the possibility of an increased risk of malignancy in patients taking angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), such as azilsartan, for the treatment of hypertension. This announcement was based on results of a meta-analysis including data from over 1000 patients in several long-term, randomized, controlled clinical trials evaluating ARBs. The frequency of new cancer occurrence was 7.2% for patients receiving ARBs compared to 6% for those not receiving ARBs (RR = 1.08, 95% CI, 1.01—1.15). In June 2011, the FDA announced that the use of ARBs for hypertension does not increase the risk for cancer. The FDA analyzed data from 31 randomized controlled trials (including 155,000 patients) comparing ARBs to other treatments. Based on these data, the FDA concluded that there is no evidence of an increased risk of new cancer, cancer-related death, breast cancer, lung cancer, or prostate cancer in patients receiving ARBs.

hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, syncope


As with other angiotensin II receptor antagonists, volume depletion increases the risk of symptomatic hypotension (e.g. orthostatic hypotension or syncope) in patients receiving azilsartan. The incidence of hypotension and syncope during azilsartan clinical trials was not reported by the manufacturer. In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system (e.g., volume- and/or salt depleted patients), symptomatic hypotension may occur upon initiation of azilsartan. Volume- and/or salt depletion should be corrected prior to administration of azilsartan. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which can usually be continued once the blood pressure has stabilized. If hypotension does occur, it should be corrected with an intravenous infusion of normal saline. Hypotension and/or orthostatic hypotension were the most common adverse events leading to discontinuation of therapy in 0.4% of patients randomized to azilsartan 40 mg/day or 80 mg/day compared to 0% on placebo.


diarrhea, nausea


Diarrhea was reported in up to 2% in patients treated with azilsartan 80 mg/day compared to 0.5% of patients on placebo during monotherapy trials. Nausea was reported in >= 0.3% of patients treated with azilsartan in placebo-controlled trials.


asthenia, dizziness, fatigue


CNS adverse reactions that have been reported in azilsartan-treated patients in include: asthenia (>=0.3%), fatigue (1.1—2.5%), and dizziness (2.1—3.6%).


cough


Cough was reported in >= 0.3% of azilsartan-treated patients in placebo-controlled trials. The incidence of cough is lower with angiotensin receptor antagonists (ARBs) than with the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs). ARBs do not inhibit angiotensin converting enzyme (kinase II). Inhibition of kinase II decreases bradykinin breakdown and is thought to be the primary mechanism for ACEI-induced cough.


muscle cramps


Muscle cramps (i.e., muscle spasms) were reported in >= 0.3% of azilsartan-treated patients in placebo-controlled trials.


angioedema


Theoretically, angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) should be less likely than angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) to precipitate angioedema because ARBs do not cause accumulation of kinins. However, angioedema (swelling of lips and eyelids, facial rash) has been reported during postmarketing experience with azilsartan.


anemia


Although the manufacturer does not report any patient discontinuing therapy due to anemia, low hemoglobin, hematocrit, and RBC counts were reported in 0.2%, 0.4%, and 0.3% of azilsartan-treated patients, respectively. These changes were not reported in the placebo group.


azotemia, oliguria, renal failure (unspecified)


Small reversible increases in serum creatinine have been seen in patients receiving azilsartan 80 mg/day PO. The increase may be larger when coadministered with chlorthalidone or hydrochlorothiazide and is more commonly reported in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment or patients > 75 years of age. Oliguria and/or progressive azotemia and rarely acute renal failure (unspecified) and/or death have occurred with the use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, more frequently in patients whose renal function is critically dependent on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with heart failure, or severe sodium and volume depletion).


teratogenesis


Due to the potential for teratogenesis, azilsartan should not be used during pregnancy. Drugs that affect the renin-angiotensin system have been associated with fetal and neonatal abnormalities when administered to women during the second or third trimesters of pregnancy. Adverse fetal and neonatal effects have included hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, anuria, renal failure, oligohydramnios, and death. Oligohydramnios has been associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. If oliguria or hypotension occurs in a neonate with a history of in utero exposure to azilsartan, blood pressure and renal perfusion support may be required, as well as exchange transfusion or dialysis to reverse hypotension and/or support decreased renal function.


pruritus, rash (unspecified)


Rash (unspecified) and pruritus have been reported during postmarketing experience with azilsartan.


Description

Azilsartan medoxomil is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist approved for the treatment of hypertension either as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents in adults. Azilsartan medoxomil is a prodrug that is hydrolyzed to the active metabolite azilsartan. It is a potent and highly selective angiotensin II antagonist at the AT1 receptor, which mediates the vasopressor and aldosterone effects of angiotensin II. Because azilsartan does not inhibit angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), it does not result in bradykinin accumulation, which is theorized to cause the cough and angioedema associated with ACE inhibitors. However, angioedema has been rarely associated with other angiotensin II antagonists. The effect of azilsartan 40 mg and 80 mg/day on 24-hour mean systolic blood pressure (SBP) in patients with stage 1 or 2 hypertension was compared to valsartan 320 mg/day, olmesartan 40 mg/day, and placebo. After 6 weeks, all active treatments resulted in a significant decrease in 24-hour mean SBP compared to placebo. Both doses of azilsartan resulted in statistically significantly greater reductions from baseline in 24-hour mean SBP than valsartan 320 mg/day (-13.4 to -14.5 mmHg vs. -10.2 mmHg); however, only azilsartan 80 mg produced statistically significantly greater reductions than olmesartan 40 mg (-14.5 mmHg vs. -12 mmHg; p = 0.009). The 40 mg dose of azilsartan was non-inferior to olmesartan 40 mg. Additionally, a significantly larger proportion of patients in the azilsartan 80 mg group achieved a reduction of clinic SBP to less than 140 mm Hg and/or a reduction of 20 mmHg or greater than in the other groups. No instances of severe hyperkalemia (i.e., serum potassium greater than 6 mmol/L) were reported. Another study comparing the effect of azilsartan (20 mg, 40 mg, and 80 mg) on 24-hour mean SBP to placebo and olmesartan 40 mg yielded similar results. Azilsartan 80 mg produced statistically significantly greater reductions from baseline in 24-hour mean SBP compared to olmesartan (-14.6 mmHg vs. -12.6 mmHg; 95% CI, -4 to -0.1; p = 0.038) while azilsartan 40 mg was non-inferior to olmesartan. The proportion of patients achieving a reduction in clinic SBP to less than 140 mmHg and/or a reduction of 20 mmHg or greater was similar in the azilsartan 80 mg and olmesartan 40 mg groups (57% vs. 53%, p =0.402). Azilsartan was approved by the FDA in February 2011.

Mechanism Of Action

Azilsartan antagonizes angiotensin II at the AT1 receptor subtype in tissues like vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland. Two angiotensin II receptors, AT1 and AT2, have been identified; azilsartan exhibits more than 10,000-fold greater affinity for the AT1 receptor than the AT2 receptor. The AT2 subtype is not known to mediate cardiovascular homeostasis. Angiotensin II is the primary vasoactive hormone of the renin-angiotensin system and plays an important role in the pathophysiology of hypertension and congestive heart failure. Angiotensin II is a potent vasoconstrictor; which also stimulates the synthesis and release of aldosterone. By selectively blocking the AT1 receptor in tissues such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland, azilsartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II. Because azilsartan does not inhibit ACE, it also does not inhibit the breakdown of bradykinin.

Pharmacokinetics

Azilsartan is administered orally. The drug is highly bound to plasma proteins (i.e., > 99%), mainly serum albumin. The primary metabolites are M-I (minor) and M-II (major) and account for about < 1% and approximately 50% of the dose, respectively. M-I and M-II do not contribute to the pharmacologic activity. CYP2C9 is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism. The elimination half-life is approximately 11 hours. Steady state concentrations are achieved within 5 days and no accumulation in plasma occurs with once-daily dosing. Approximately 55% of the administered dose is eliminated in the feces, and approximately 42% in the urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C9

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Azilsartan medoxomil is hydrolyzed to the active metabolite, azilsartan, in the gastrointestinal tract during absorption. Azilsartan is rapidly absorbed, with peak plasma concentrations occurring 1.5—3 hours after oral administration. The estimated absolute bioavailability is approximately 60% and is not affected by food.

Hepatic Impairment

The Cmax and AUC of azilsartan are modestly increased in patients with mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment; no dosage adjustment is recommended by the manufacturer. The drug has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

In patients with renal impairment, the AUC and Cmax of azilsartan are elevated compared to normal controls; however, the effects are modest and no dosage adjustment is required in patients with mild-to-severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease.

Geriatric

According to the manufacturer, dosage adjustments of azilsartan are not necessary in the elderly. The pharmacokinetics of azilsartan do not differ between the elderly and those younger than 65 years; however, abnormally high serum creatinine values were more likely to be reported for patients age 75 or older.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


May administer without regard to food.
Dispense in original package to protect from light and moisture; do not repackage.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

80 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

80 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Azilsartan medoxomil 40mg Oral tablet

Azilsartan medoxomil 80mg Oral tablet

Edarbi 40mg Tablet

Edarbi 80mg Tablet

Edarbyclor 40mg-12.5mg Tablet

Edarbyclor 40mg-25mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustment is recommended by the manufacturer in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. Azilsartan has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Dosage adjustments are not recommended by the manufacturer in patients with mild to severe renal impairment, including those with end stage renal disease.

© 2026 Elsevier