=== amLODIPine/Atorvastatin — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3113)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Amlodipine; atorvastatin is an oral antihypertensive and antilipemic combination product that may be substituted for its individually titrated components.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/day PO amlodipine and 80 mg/day PO atorvastatin.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, flushing, palpitations, peripheral edema, syncope, vasculitis, ventricular tachycardia, arthralgia, back pain, elevated creatine kinase, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, myoglobinuria, myopathy, renal failure, rhabdomyolysis, tendon rupture, weakness, cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine, particularly in individuals with severe obstructive coronary artery...

AMLODIPINE/ATORVASTATIN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Caduet

Indication Specific Dosing


Atorvastatin 40 or 80 mg once daily is considered to be a high-intensity statin (expected to lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) by 50% or more), while atorvastatin 10 or 20 mg once daily is considered to be a moderate-intensity statin (expected to lower LDL-C by 30% to 49%).
Choice of high- or moderate-intensity statin therapy is dependent on patient age, baseline LDL-C, ASCVD risk factors, and concomitant diseases. High-intensity therapy provides greatest LDL-C reductions and is associated with a significantly greater reduction in ASCVD events vs. moderate-intensity therapy.


For the treatment of hypertension or coronary artery disease (including chronic stable angina or variant angina), reduction of cardiovascular events (e.g., myocardial infarction prophylaxis, stroke prophylaxis), reduction of cardiovascular mortality, or reduction of heart failure hospitalizations in patients with coexisting hypercholesterolemia, primary hyperlipidemia, heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH), homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), or hypertriglyceridemia

For the treatment of hypertension in patients who also require cholesterol lowering therapy with atorvastatin
Oral dosage
Adults


Amlodipine 5 mg/atorvastatin 10 mg to 20 mg PO once daily, initially. For amlodipine, dose may be increased after 7 to 14 days if further control is needed to a maximum of 10 mg/day. For atorvastatin, may start at 40 mg PO once daily in patients requiring greater than 45% LDL-reduction. The atorvastatin dosage range is 10 to 80 mg PO once daily (mean LDL reduction range: 43 to 60% LDL). After dosage initiation or titration, assess LDL-C levels as early as 4 weeks or when clinically appropriate and adjust dosage as necessary.


Geriatric Adults


Amlodipine 2.5 mg/atorvastatin 10 mg to 20 mg PO once daily, initially. For amlodipine, dose may be increased after 7 to 14 days if further control is needed to a maximum of 10 mg/day. For atorvastatin, may start at 40 mg PO once daily in patients requiring greater than 45% LDL-reduction. The atorvastatin dosage range is 10 to 80 mg PO once daily (mean LDL reduction range: 43 to 60% LDL). After dosage initiation or titration, assess LDL-C levels as early as 4 weeks or when clinically appropriate and adjust dosage as necessary.


Children and Adolescents 10 years and older (females should be at least 1 year post-menarche)


Amlodipine 2.5 mg/atorvastatin 10 mg once daily, initially. For amlodipine, dose may be increased after 7 to 14 days if further control is needed to a maximum of 5 mg/day. The atorvastatin dosage range is 10 to 20 mg PO once daily. After dosage initiation or titration, assess LDL-C levels as early as 4 weeks or when clinically appropriate and adjust dosage as necessary.


For the treatment of angina or coronary artery disease in patients who also require cholesterol lowering therapy with atorvastatin
Oral dosage
Adults


Amlodipine 5 mg to 10 mg/atorvastatin 10 mg to 20 mg PO once daily, initially. The maximum amlodipine dose is 10 mg/day. For atorvastatin, may start at 40 mg PO once daily in patients requiring greater than 45% LDL-reduction. The atorvastatin dosage range is 10 to 80 mg PO once daily (mean LDL reduction range: 43 to 60% LDL). After dosage initiation or titration, assess LDL-C levels as early as 4 weeks or when clinically appropriate and adjust dosage as necessary.


Older Adults


Amlodipine 5 mg/atorvastatin 10 mg to 20 mg PO once daily, initially. For amlodipine, dose may be increased to a maximum of 10 mg/day. For atorvastatin, may start at 40 mg PO once daily in patients requiring greater than 45% LDL-reduction. The atorvastatin dosage range is 10 to 80 mg PO once daily (mean LDL reduction range: 43 to 60% LDL). After dosage initiation or titration, assess LDL-C levels as early as 4 weeks or when clinically appropriate and adjust dosage as necessary.


For the reduction of cardiovascular mortality, reduction of heart failure hospitalizations, myocardial infarction prophylaxis, and stroke prophylaxis in persons with coronary heart disease
Oral dosage
Adults


Amlodipine 5 mg to 10 mg/atorvastatin 10 mg to 20 mg PO once daily, initially. The maximum amlodipine dose is 10 mg/day. For atorvastatin, may start at 40 mg PO once daily in patients requiring greater than 45% LDL-reduction. The atorvastatin dosage range is 10 to 80 mg PO once daily (mean LDL reduction range: 43 to 60% LDL). After dosage initiation or titration, assess LDL-C levels as early as 4 weeks or when clinically appropriate and adjust dosage as necessary.


Older Adults


Amlodipine 5 mg/atorvastatin 10 mg to 20 mg PO once daily, initially. For amlodipine, dose may be increased to a maximum of 10 mg/day. For atorvastatin, may start at 40 mg PO once daily in patients requiring greater than 45% LDL-reduction. The atorvastatin dosage range is 10 to 80 mg PO once daily (mean LDL reduction range: 43 to 60% LDL). After dosage initiation or titration, assess LDL-C levels as early as 4 weeks or when clinically appropriate and adjust dosage as necessary.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine, particularly in individuals with severe obstructive coronary artery disease.

acute hepatic failure, alcohol use disorder, decompensated hepatic cirrhosis, hepatic disease


Amlodipine; atorvastatin is contraindicated in individuals with acute hepatic failure or decompensated hepatic cirrhosis. Individuals with alcohol use disorder or those who consume substantial quantities of alcohol and/or have a history of hepatic disease (i.e., hepatitis) may be at increased risk for hepatic injury. Assess liver enzymes prior to treatment initiation and repeat as clinically indicated if signs or symptoms of hepatic injury occur. Promptly discontinue atorvastatin if hepatic injury with clinical symptoms, hyperbilirubinemia, or jaundice occurs. Increases in hepatic transaminases have been reported with atorvastatin. In most cases, increases in hepatic transaminases occurred soon after initiation, were transient, were not associated with symptoms, and resolved or improved on continued therapy or after temporary discontinuation of therapy. There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in individuals taking statins.


amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Asian patients, carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A deficiency, carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency, diabetes mellitus, electrolyte imbalance, females, hypothyroidism, hypovolemia, infection, major surgery, myasthenia gravis, myopathy, renal failure, renal impairment, seizure disorder, sepsis, shock, substance abuse disorder, trauma


Risk factors for the development of statin-associated muscle symptoms (SAMS), such as myopathy, immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy, and rhabdomyolysis, include elderly adults (age 65 years or more), females, endocrine disease (e.g., diabetes mellitus, uncontrolled or untreated hypothyroidism), vitamin D deficiency, electrolyte imbalance, renal impairment, renal failure, hepatic disease/impairment, neuromuscular disease/metabolic muscle disorder (e.g., amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A deficiency, carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency), frailty, low body weight/body mass, Asian patients, infection, personal or family history of statin or other lipid-lowering therapy intolerance, SAMS, or muscle symptoms to other lipid-lowering therapy, preexisting myopathy (including congenital myopathies), alcohol or substance abuse disorder (e.g., amphetamine, cocaine, heroin), major surgery, autoimmune disorders, genetic variants involved in statin metabolism, concomitant use with certain drugs (including other lipid lowering therapies), and higher statin dosage. Discontinue amlodipine; atorvastatin if markedly elevated CK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. Temporarily discontinue amlodipine; atorvastatin in individuals experiencing an acute or serious condition at high risk of developing renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis (e.g., sepsis, shock, severe hypovolemia, major surgery, trauma, severe metabolic disorders, severe endocrine disease, severe electrolyte imbalance, or uncontrolled seizure disorder). Use amlodipine; atorvastatin with caution in individuals with myasthenia gravis. Exacerbation of myasthenia gravis, including ocular myasthenia gravis, has been reported during treatment with statins, including amlodipine; atorvastatin. Individuals with myasthenia gravis may also have a higher risk of myopathy. Instruct individuals to promptly report unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness, especially if accompanied by malaise or fever.


severe aortic stenosis


Symptomatic hypotension is possible with amlodipine, particularly in individuals with severe aortic stenosis.


geriatric


A lower initial amlodipine dose may be required in geriatric adults. In general, use cautious dose selection for amlodipine in older adults, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Older adults have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in overall amlodipine exposure. Geriatric individuals may also have a higher risk of myopathy.


nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhage


Use atorvastatin; amlodipine with caution in individuals with a recent nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhage (hemorrhagic stroke) and consider the risks versus benefits of atorvastatin 80 mg/day in this group of individuals. In a post-hoc analysis of the Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels (SPARCL) study, a higher incidence of hemorrhagic stroke was seen in individuals without coronary heart disease who had a stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) within the preceding 6 months and were receiving atorvastatin 80 mg compared to those receiving placebo. The incidence of nonfatal hemorrhagic stroke was significantly higher in the atorvastatin group compared to the placebo group; however, the incidence of fatal hemorrhagic stroke was similar across treatment groups. Some baseline characteristics, including hemorrhagic and lacunar stroke on study entry, were associated with a higher incidence of hemorrhagic stroke in the atorvastatin group.


pregnancy


Discontinue amlodipine; atorvastatin when pregnancy is recognized. Alternatively, consider the ongoing therapeutic needs of the individual, particularly those at high risk for cardiovascular events during pregnancy, such as individuals with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) or familial hypercholesterolemia. Atorvastatin may cause fetal harm based on the mechanism of action. Atorvastatin decreases the synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol. Cholesterol and other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway are essential components for fetal development, including synthesis of steroids and cell membranes. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) completed a review of data from case series, prospective and retrospective observational cohort studies over decades of statin use in pregnant individuals and concluded that these studies have not identified a drug-associated risk of major congenital malformations associated with statin use during pregnancy. In a Medicaid cohort linkage study (n = 1,152) of statin-exposed pregnant individuals, no significant teratogenic effects were observed following statin use during the first trimester of pregnancy after adjusting for potential confounders (i.e., maternal age, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obesity, alcohol use, tobacco use); the relative risk (RR) of congenital malformations was 1.07 (95% confidence interval (CI), 0.85 to 1.37). In addition, after accounting for confounders, there were no statistically significant increases in organ-specific malformations. In the study, statin treatment was started prior to pregnancy and was discontinued within the first trimester after pregnancy was detected in a majority of individuals. In another cohort study of 469 individuals who were dispensed statins during pregnancy, it was determined that there was no increase in congenital anomalies after adjustment for maternal age and comorbidities; however, statin use was associated with an increased risk of preterm labor (RR, 1.99 [95% CI, 1.46 to 2.71]) and low birth weight (RR, 1.51 [95% CI, 1.05 to 2.16]). In a published, retrospective cohort study of 281 statin-exposed pregnant individuals, those on statin therapy had a miscarriage rate of 25% compared to 21% for pregnant individuals not on statin therapy (n = 2,643); adjusted hazard ratio was 1.64 (95% CI, 1.1 to 2.46). The FDA also re-reviewed non-clinical, animal data statin development programs and concluded that statins have a limited potential to cause malformations or embryo-fetal lethality, and limited potential to affect nervous system development during embryo-fetal development during the pre- and post-natal period. Decreased postnatal growth and development delay were observed in pregnant rats administered atorvastatin at doses 6 times and greater during gestation and lactation. Overall, available data have not identified a drug-associated risk of major congenital malformations, but published data are insufficient to determine if there is a drug-associated risk of miscarriage. Temporary discontinuation of lipid-lowering therapy, such as atorvastatin, should have minimal impact on the long-term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia, as atherosclerosis is a chronic process. Data with amlodipine use in pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage. Hypertension during pregnancy increases the risk of preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, premature delivery, and delivery complications. Fetal risks of maternal hypertension include intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death. Data for animal reproductive studies indicate no evidence of adverse developmental effects when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine during organogenesis at doses approximately 10- and 20-times the maximum recommended human dose, respectively. Litter size for rats was decreased by about 50% and the number of intrauterine deaths was increased approximately 5-fold. Amlodipine has been shown to prolong the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with statins. Statins may cause fetal harm based on their mechanism of action. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking a statin. In general, those who plan to become pregnant should stop statin therapy 1 to 2 months before pregnancy is attempted, or as soon as pregnancy is discovered, taking into consideration the therapeutic needs of the individual.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking amlodipine; atorvastatin. There is no data on the presence of atorvastatin in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. However, it has been shown that another medication in the same class passes into human milk. It is likely that atorvastatin is excreted to some degree in human milk. Atorvastatin and/or its metabolites are present in the milk of lactating rats. Cholesterol and other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway are essential components for infant growth and development, including synthesis of steroids and cell membranes. Statins decrease the synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway and may cause harm to the breastfed child. If lipid-lowering therapy is necessary during breast-feeding, a nonabsorbable resin such as cholestyramine, colesevelam, or colestipol should be considered. These agents do not enter the bloodstream and thus will not be excreted during lactation. However, resins bind fat-soluble vitamins and prolonged use may result in deficiencies of these vitamins in breast-feeding individuals and breastfed child.  Amlodipine is present in human breast milk in small amounts. No adverse effects of amlodipine on breastfed children have been observed. There is no information on the effect of amlodipine on milk production. In a study of 31 lactating individuals with pregnancy-induced hypertension, the median relative infant dose (RID) of amlodipine in human milk was 4.2% (interquartile range, 3.1% to 7.3%) and the maximum RID was 15.2%. The breastfed infants did not experience cardiovascular adverse effects within 3 weeks postpartum, but there was no information available on cardiovascular measurement methods or the extent of breast-feeding. In another study of 8 lactating individuals, the average RID for amlodipine was 3.4% (range, 1.56% to 4.32%).


Pregnancy And Lactation


Discontinue amlodipine; atorvastatin when pregnancy is recognized. Alternatively, consider the ongoing therapeutic needs of the individual, particularly those at high risk for cardiovascular events during pregnancy, such as individuals with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) or familial hypercholesterolemia. Atorvastatin may cause fetal harm based on the mechanism of action. Atorvastatin decreases the synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol. Cholesterol and other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway are essential components for fetal development, including synthesis of steroids and cell membranes. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) completed a review of data from case series, prospective and retrospective observational cohort studies over decades of statin use in pregnant individuals and concluded that these studies have not identified a drug-associated risk of major congenital malformations associated with statin use during pregnancy. In a Medicaid cohort linkage study (n = 1,152) of statin-exposed pregnant individuals, no significant teratogenic effects were observed following statin use during the first trimester of pregnancy after adjusting for potential confounders (i.e., maternal age, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obesity, alcohol use, tobacco use); the relative risk (RR) of congenital malformations was 1.07 (95% confidence interval (CI), 0.85 to 1.37). In addition, after accounting for confounders, there were no statistically significant increases in organ-specific malformations. In the study, statin treatment was started prior to pregnancy and was discontinued within the first trimester after pregnancy was detected in a majority of individuals. In another cohort study of 469 individuals who were dispensed statins during pregnancy, it was determined that there was no increase in congenital anomalies after adjustment for maternal age and comorbidities; however, statin use was associated with an increased risk of preterm labor (RR, 1.99 [95% CI, 1.46 to 2.71]) and low birth weight (RR, 1.51 [95% CI, 1.05 to 2.16]). In a published, retrospective cohort study of 281 statin-exposed pregnant individuals, those on statin therapy had a miscarriage rate of 25% compared to 21% for pregnant individuals not on statin therapy (n = 2,643); adjusted hazard ratio was 1.64 (95% CI, 1.1 to 2.46). The FDA also re-reviewed non-clinical, animal data statin development programs and concluded that statins have a limited potential to cause malformations or embryo-fetal lethality, and limited potential to affect nervous system development during embryo-fetal development during the pre- and post-natal period. Decreased postnatal growth and development delay were observed in pregnant rats administered atorvastatin at doses 6 times and greater during gestation and lactation. Overall, available data have not identified a drug-associated risk of major congenital malformations, but published data are insufficient to determine if there is a drug-associated risk of miscarriage. Temporary discontinuation of lipid-lowering therapy, such as atorvastatin, should have minimal impact on the long-term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia, as atherosclerosis is a chronic process. Data with amlodipine use in pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage. Hypertension during pregnancy increases the risk of preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, premature delivery, and delivery complications. Fetal risks of maternal hypertension include intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death. Data for animal reproductive studies indicate no evidence of adverse developmental effects when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine during organogenesis at doses approximately 10- and 20-times the maximum recommended human dose, respectively. Litter size for rats was decreased by about 50% and the number of intrauterine deaths was increased approximately 5-fold. Amlodipine has been shown to prolong the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose.


Interactions

Abrocitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with amlodipine may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of amlodipine could decrease dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to dihydrocodeine. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Adagrasib: (Major) Coadministration of atorvastatin with adagrasib may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with adagrasib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Adenosine: (Moderate) Use adenosine with caution in the presence of calcium-channel blockers due to the potential for additive or synergistic depressant effects on the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If amlodipine is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Coadministration of atorvastatin resulted in an approximate 50% increase in aliskiren Cmax and AUC after multiple doses; the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin were not affected. Monitor blood pressure in patients taking both of these medications.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of atorvastatin resulted in an approximate 50% increase in aliskiren Cmax and AUC after multiple doses; the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin were not affected. Monitor blood pressure in patients taking both of these medications.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Minor) Concentrations of atorvastatin may be decreased with concomitant use of pioglitazone. The effect of pioglitazone capistration on the systemic exposure of atorvastatin was determined in a drug-drug interaction study. Coadministration of pioglitazone 45 mg once daily with atorvastatin 80 mg daily for 7 days resulted in a 14% and 23% reduction in atorvastatin AUC and Cmax, respectively. In addition, coadministration resulted in a 24% and 31% reduction in pioglitazone AUC and Cmax, respectively. Patients should be evaluated more frequently with respect to glycemic control and lipid therapy.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving calcium-channel blockers should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. Patients receiving amifostine at doses recommended for chemotherapy should have antihypertensive therapy interrupted 24 hours preceding administration of amifostine. If the antihypertensive cannot be stopped for 24 hours before chemotherapy doses of amifostine, patients should not receive amifostine.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with amiodarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Amobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8). (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Clarithromycin inhibits the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin.
Amphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of atorvastatin if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased atorvastatin exposure by 80% if the doses were separated, but increased the exposure of atorvastatin by 30% with simultaneous administration.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if amlodipine and a multi-day regimen of oral aprepitant are used concurrently; monitor for an increase in amlodipine-related adverse effects for several days after administration. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of amlodipine. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important. (Moderate) Use caution if atorvastatin and a multi-day regimen of oral aprepitant are used concurrently; monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse effects for several days after administration. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Armodafinil: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; asciminib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of atorvastatin with antacids reduced the plasma concentrations of atorvastatin by approximately 35 percent. However, LDL-cholesterol reduction was not altered.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if atorvastatin must be coadministered with atazanavir. When atazanavir is boosted with cobicistat, use of atorvastatin is not recommended. The risk of developing myopathy or rhabdomyolysis increases when these drugs are used together. Monitor patients for any signs or symptoms of muscle pain, weakness, or tenderness especially in the initial months of therapy and any time the dosage of either drug is titrated upward. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be weighed carefully against the benefits of combined statin and atazanavir therapy; there is no assurance that periodic monitoring of CK will prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy and renal damage. Increased atorvastatin serum concentrations may occur due to atazanavir inhibition of CYP3A4 metabolism. In addition, atorvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP1B1); atazanavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if atorvastatin must be coadministered with atazanavir. When atazanavir is boosted with cobicistat, use of atorvastatin is not recommended. The risk of developing myopathy or rhabdomyolysis increases when these drugs are used together. Monitor patients for any signs or symptoms of muscle pain, weakness, or tenderness especially in the initial months of therapy and any time the dosage of either drug is titrated upward. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be weighed carefully against the benefits of combined statin and atazanavir therapy; there is no assurance that periodic monitoring of CK will prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy and renal damage. Increased atorvastatin serum concentrations may occur due to atazanavir inhibition of CYP3A4 metabolism. In addition, atorvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP1B1); atazanavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. (Major) When administering atorvastatin concurrently with cobicistat, use the lowest starting dose of atorvastatin and carefully titrate while monitoring for adverse events (myopathy); DO NOT exceed a maximum daily atorvastatin dose of 20 mg daily. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased atorvastatin exposure by 3.3- to 4.4-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Avanafil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure closely during concomitant use of avanafil and amlodipine as coadministration may increase the risk of additive hypotension. Avanafil is a substrate of CYP3A and amlodipine is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with amlodipine increased the AUC of avanafil by approximately 70% and the half-life was prolonged to approximately 10 hours. A mean maximum decrease in supine systolic blood pressure of 1.2 mmHg (compared to placebo), accompanied by a mean maximum increase in pulse rate of 1 beat per minute was observed.
Azithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with azithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Barbiturates: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with amlodipine may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Discontinuation of amlodipine in a patient taking benzhydrocodone may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP3A4. Amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with berotralstat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Bexarotene: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as bexarotene, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; lenacapavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with lenacapavir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients. (Minor) Monitor patients for the development of peripheral neuropathy when receiving bortezomib in combination with other drugs that can cause peripheral neuropathy like HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors; the risk of peripheral neuropathy may be additive.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with bosentan is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if coadministration with brigatinib is necessary. Atorvastatin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Brigatinib is a P-gp inhibitor in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of P-gp substrates.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including amlodipine. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Calcium Acetate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Chloride: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Gluconate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with cannabidiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Atorvastatin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and a substrate of the efflux transporter BCRP. Capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. If coadministration is unavoidable, consider a decrease in the atorvastatin dosage in accordance with the approved atorvastatin prescribing information and clinical goals for the patient.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Carbamazepine, which is a CYP3A4 inducer, may decrease the efficacy of HMG-Co-A reductase inhibitors which are CYP3A4 substrates, such as atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor carbamazepine concentrations and blood pressure closely during coadministration of amlodipine; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may increase carbamazepine concentrations. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong inducer and amlodipine is CYP3A substrate and inhibitor. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with carvedilol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; carvedilol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with cenobamate is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Ceritinib: (Major) Consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness) if coadministration of atorvastatin with ceritinib is required, particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of ceritinib with atorvastatin may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ceritinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Theoretically, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as chloramphenicol, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine via CYP3A4 inhibition; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when chloramphenicol is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chromium: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Use HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors with caution with concomitant drugs that may decrease the levels or activity of endogenous steroids, such as cimetidine. Evaluate patients with signs and symptoms of endocrine dysfunction appropriately. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors interfere with cholesterol synthesis and theoretically might blunt adrenal and/or gonadal steroid production.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Closely monitor for signs and symptoms of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and consider atorvastatin dosage adjustment in patients also taking ciprofloxacin. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, with atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate, may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher statin doses. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ciprofloxacin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8). (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Clarithromycin inhibits the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin.
cloBAZam: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as clobazam, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced therapeutic response to clopidogrel when it is coadministered with amlodipine. Although clopidogrel is primarily converted to its active metabolite via CYP2C19, it has been suggested that calcium channel blocker (CCB)-induced inhibition of CYP3A4 reduces its conversion to the active metabolite, thereby reducing its antiplatelet effect. Because amlodipine has represented the largest subgroup of CCB studied, it is unknown whether this is a class effect. It has been theorized that CCBs that inhibit P-glycoprotein (P-gp) decrease the intestinal efflux of clopidogrel, thereby increasing its plasma concentrations and counteracting the effect of CCB-induced CYP3A4 inhibition. Amlodipine is not a P-gp inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug.
Cobicistat: (Major) When administering atorvastatin concurrently with cobicistat, use the lowest starting dose of atorvastatin and carefully titrate while monitoring for adverse events (myopathy); DO NOT exceed a maximum daily atorvastatin dose of 20 mg daily. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased atorvastatin exposure by 3.3- to 4.4-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations. (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
Colchicine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of colchicine and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) may increase the risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially following therapy initiation and upward dose titration. The use of low dose colchicine may further reduce the risk for myopathy.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with conivaptan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; conivaptan is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with conivaptan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of amlodipine and oral conivaptan doubled amlodipine's overall exposure in a drug interaction study.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) In clinical evaluation, atorvastatin 20 mg was given once with bazedoxifene 40 mg in 30 postmenopausal women. Co-administration decreased the Cmax of bazedoxifene by 3% and increased AUC of bazedoxifene by 6%. The clinical effect of this change is not known. Monitor patients for loss of efficacy and increased side effects during conjugated estrogens; bazedoxifene therapy. In addition, bazedoxifene 40 mg was given for 8 consecutive days prior to co-administration of bazedoxifene 40 mg and atorvastatin 20 mg. Co-administration decreased the Cmax of atorvastatin by 14%. The AUC of atorvastatin was unchanged. The Cmax and AUC of 2-OH atorvastatin were decreased by 18% and 8%, respectively. The possibility of reduced anti-lipemic efficacy should be considered; however, the clinical relevance of this interaction has not been determined, since the AUC (exposure) of atorvastatin remained unchanged.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with crizotinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) FDA-approved labeling recommends avoiding coadministration of atorvastatin and cyclosporine. However, guidelines recommend limiting the atorvastatin dose to 10 mg/day in patients receiving cyclosporine. Concomitant administration increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Atorvastatin is a substrate for OATP1B1 transporter; cyclosporine is an inhibitor of this transporter. Concomitant administration of atorvastatin 10 mg and cyclosporine 5.2 mg/kg/day resulted in a significantly higher atorvastatin AUC (8.7-fold higher) compared to that of atorvastatin alone. (Moderate) Caution should be used when cyclosporine is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored, including cyclosporine levels as necessary. Amlodipine may increase cyclosporine concentrations. In one study, whole blood cyclosporine trough concentrations increased from 140.2 +/- 18.2 to 200 +/- 21.9 mcg/L after amlodipine addition. In another study, the systemic exposure (AUC) of cyclosporine increased following the addition of amlodipine, and was decreased in the absence of the drug. The postulated mechanism is the inhibitory effect of amlodipine on the P-glycoprotein-mediated efflux of cyclosporine from intestinal epithelial cells. In addition, amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4; cyclosporine is a substrate with a narrow therapeutic index. Also, amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and theoretically, cyclosporine, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine via CYP3A4 inhibition; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals.
Dabrafenib: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as dabrafenib, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Moderate) Dalfopristin; quinupristin has been shown to inhibit CYP3A4 and may decrease the elimination of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate.
Danazol: (Moderate) The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant administration of danazol with atorvastatin. Danazol is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may inhibit the metabolism of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Until more data are available, danazol should be used very cautiously, if at all, in patients receiving statins which are CYP3A4 substrates.
Danicopan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with danicopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; danicopan is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concurrent use with skeletal muscle relaxants and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
DAPTOmycin: (Moderate) Consider temporary discontinuation of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors during daptomycin treatment. If concomitant use is necessary monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis as both medications have been associated with these adverse effects.
Daraxonrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with daraxonrasib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; daraxonrasib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with daridorexant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; daridorexant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Darolutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with darolutamide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate; darolutamide is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with darunavir plus ritonavir is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Protease inhibitors inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with darunavir plus ritonavir is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Protease inhibitors inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin. (Major) When administering atorvastatin concurrently with cobicistat, use the lowest starting dose of atorvastatin and carefully titrate while monitoring for adverse events (myopathy); DO NOT exceed a maximum daily atorvastatin dose of 20 mg daily. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased atorvastatin exposure by 3.3- to 4.4-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with darunavir plus ritonavir is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Protease inhibitors inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin. (Major) When administering atorvastatin concurrently with cobicistat, use the lowest starting dose of atorvastatin and carefully titrate while monitoring for adverse events (myopathy); DO NOT exceed a maximum daily atorvastatin dose of 20 mg daily. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased atorvastatin exposure by 3.3- to 4.4-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Deferasirox: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as deferasirox, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of dexmedetomidine and calcium-channel blockers could lead to additive hypotension and bradycardia; use together with caution. Dexmedetomidine can produce bradycardia or AV block and should be used cautiously in patients who are receiving antihypertensive drugs that may lower the heart rate such as calcium-channel blockers.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased quinidine adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase quinidine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; quinidine is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index. In addition, quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of calcium-channel blockers. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Digoxin: (Major) Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating atorvastatin. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing the digoxin dose by approximately 15-30% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. Coadministration of digoxin and atorvastatin increases the serum concentration and AUC of digoxin by 22% and 15%, respectively. Digoxin and atorvastatin are both substrates for P-glycoprotein (P-gp).
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with diltiazem is necessary. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A substrate; diltiazem is a CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use has been shown to increase atorvastatin overall exposure by 1.5-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with diltiazem is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with diltiazem in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with amlodipine is necessary, and monitor for an increase in dronabinol-related adverse reactions (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence). Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant use may result in elevated plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is an inhibitor of CYP3A, CYP2D6, and P-gp. Atorvastatin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. Monitor for signs and symptoms of myopathy in patients receiving dronedarone concurrently with atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with duvelisib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Efavirenz has the potential to induce CYP3A4 isoenzymes according to in vivo studies with other CYP3A4 substrates. Until data with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are available, efavirenz should be coadministered with atorvastatin with caution. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Efavirenz has the potential to induce CYP3A4 isoenzymes according to in vivo studies with other CYP3A4 substrates. Until data with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are available, efavirenz should be coadministered with atorvastatin with caution. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Efavirenz has the potential to induce CYP3A4 isoenzymes according to in vivo studies with other CYP3A4 substrates. Until data with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are available, efavirenz should be coadministered with atorvastatin with caution. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Elacestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with elacestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp; elacestrant inhibits BCRP and P-gp.
Elafibranor: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with elagolix is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with elagolix is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with grazoprevir is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Atorvastatin is a substrate for the hepatic enzymes CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Administering elbasvir; grazoprevir with amlodipine may cause the plasma concentrations of all three drugs to increase; thereby increasing the potential for adverse effects (i.e., elevated ALT concentrations and hepatotoxicity). Amlodipine is a substrate and weak inhibitor of CYP3A. Both elbasvir and grazoprevir are metabolized by CYP3A, and grazoprevir is also a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of hepatotoxicity.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with elexacaftor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is an OATP1B1/3 substrate; elexacaftor is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) In poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs), coadministration of amlodipine and eliglustat is not recommended. In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias) in these patients. (Moderate) Coadministration of atorvastatin and eliglustat may result in increased plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. Monitor patients closely for atorvastatin-related adverse effects including myalgia, myopathy, myasthenia, and/or rhabdomyolysis; if appropriate, consider reducing the atorvastatin dosage and titrating to clinical effect. Atorvastatin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; eliglustat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is an inhibitor of the transporter OATP1B1. Drugs that are substrates for this transporter, such as atorvastatin, may exhibit an increase in systemic exposure if coadministered with eltrombopag; monitor patients for adverse reactions if these drugs are coadministered.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) When administering atorvastatin concurrently with cobicistat, use the lowest starting dose of atorvastatin and carefully titrate while monitoring for adverse events (myopathy); DO NOT exceed a maximum daily atorvastatin dose of 20 mg daily. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased atorvastatin exposure by 3.3- to 4.4-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) When administering atorvastatin concurrently with cobicistat, use the lowest starting dose of atorvastatin and carefully titrate while monitoring for adverse events (myopathy); DO NOT exceed a maximum daily atorvastatin dose of 20 mg daily. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased atorvastatin exposure by 3.3- to 4.4-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with enasidenib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp, BCRP, and OATP1B1/3 substrate; enasidenib is a P-gp, BCRP, and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with encorafenib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with encorafenib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a substrate of OATP1B1/3 and BCRP; encorafenib is an OATP1B1/3 and BCRP inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Coadministration of atorvastatin with ensitrelvir may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with enzalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
ePHEDrine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
epiRUBicin: (Moderate) Close cardiac monitoring is recommended throughout therapy in patients receiving concomitant therapy with epirubicin and calcium-channel blockers. Individuals receiving these medications together are at increased risk of developing heart failure.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Erdafitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with erythromycin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure. (Moderate) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if coadministration with erythromycin is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate; erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Eslicarbazepine: (Minor) In vivo studies suggest eslicarbazepine is an inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 substrates, such as amlodipine, may result in decreased serum concentrations of the substrates. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering and hypotensive efficacy when these drugs are coadministered with eslicarbazepine. Appropriate dose adjustments may be necessary. (Minor) In vivo studies suggest eslicarbazepine is an inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 substrates, such as atorvastatin, may result in decreased serum concentrations of the substrate. Monitor for decreased efficacy of atorvastatin if coadministered with eslicarbazepine. Adjust the dose of atorvastatin if clinically significant alterations in serum lipids are noted.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormonal contraceptives should be monitored for antihypertensive effectiveness.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Etodolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Etomidate: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etravirine and atorvastatin decreases atorvastatin serum concentrations and increases concentrations of the metabolite, 2-OH-atorvastatin. Atorvastatin may be a substrate of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme and etravirine induces the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. According to the manufacturer of etravirine, atorvastatin can be given without any dose adjustments, although its dose may need to be altered based on clinical response. The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, may be increased when antiretrovirals are given in combination with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as etravirine, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of everolimus and atorvastatin against the potential risks. The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis may increase with concurrent use. Although FDA-approved labeling for everolimus state that dosage adjustments are not necessary, guidelines recommend maximum atorvastatin doses of 10 mg/day unless there is close monitoring of creatinine kinase and symptoms of muscle-related toxicity. In a drug interaction study in healthy subjects, the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin were not significantly altered by single dose administration of everolimus.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Major) Do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 20 mg/day in patients taking amlodipine due to increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on amlodipine, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and simvastatin against the potential risks. Amlodipine increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 1.5-fold.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with fedratinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Fenofibrate: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Fenofibric Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If amlodipine is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Fidanacogene Elaparvovec: (Moderate) Monitor for hepatoxicity during concomitant use of fidanacogene elaparvovec and atorvastatin. Both medications have been associated with hepatic injury and concomitant use may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Hepatic injury may also lead to decreased fidanacogene elaparvovec efficacy.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or amlodipine; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with fluconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A substrate; fluconazole is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with fluconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Flutamide: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as flutamide, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) A dose reduction of amlodipine may be required during coadministration of fluvoxamine. Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as fluvoxamine, may increase plasma concentrations of amlodipine, which might lead to hypotension and peripheral edema in some individuals.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with fosamprenavir is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Protease inhibitors inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in atorvastatin efficacy if concomitant use with phenytoin is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Use the lowest possible starting dose for atorvastatin when administered concurrently with fostemsavir and monitor for signs of atorvastatin-associated adverse events, such as rhabdomyolysis. Use of these drugs together may increase the systemic exposure of atorvastatin. Atorvastatin is a substrate for the transporters OATP1B1/3 and fostemsavir is an inhibitor of OATP1B1/3.
Gemfibrozil: (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if coadministration with gemfibrozil is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Clinical practice guidelines state the concurrent use of gemfibrozil and atorvastatin is acceptable if clinically indicated and fenofibrate or fenofibric acid is not an option. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy.
General anesthetics: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with gilteritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Ginkgo biloba appears to inhibit the metabolism of calcium-channel blockers, perhaps by inhibiting the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A non-controlled pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers found that the concurrent administration of ginkgo with nifedipine resulted in a 53% increase in nifedipine peak concentrations. More study is needed regarding ginkgo's effects on CYP3A4 and whether clinically significant drug interactions result.
Ginseng, Panax ginseng: (Moderate) Ginseng appears to inhibit the metabolism of calcium-channel blockers, perhaps by inhibiting the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A non-controlled pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers found that the concurrent administration of ginseng with nifedipine resulted in a 30% increase in nifedipine peak concentrations. More study is needed regarding ginseng's effects on CYP3A4 and whether clinically significant drug interactions result.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of atorvastatin and glecaprevir due to an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Coadministration may increase the plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. Atorvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporters P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and OATP1B1/3; glecaprevir is an inhibitor of these transporters. In drug interaction studies, coadministration of atorvastatin with glecaprevir; pibrentasvir resulted in an approximately 8-fold increase in the AUC of atorvastatin. (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of atorvastatin and pibrentasvir due to an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Coadministration may increase the plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. Atorvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporters P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and OATP1B1; pibrentasvir is an inhibitor of these transporters. In drug interaction studies, coadministration of atorvastatin with glecaprevir; pibrentasvir resulted in an approximately 8-fold increase in the AUC of atorvastatin.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during amlodipine treatment due to the risk for increased amlodipine exposure and adverse reactions. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during atorvastatin treatment due to the risk for increased atorvastatin exposure and adverse reactions. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) In general, antipsychotics like haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in atorvastatin efficacy if concomitant use with phenytoin is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Idelalisib: (Major) Coadministration of idelalisib with atorvastatin may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Moderate) Coadministration of idelalisib with amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of amlodipine resulting in amlodipine-related adverse events. Consider an amlodipine dose reduction if these agents are administered together and monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Imatinib: (Major) The risk of developing myopathy during therapy with atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate, is increased if coadministered with imatinib, STI-571, a CYP3A4 inhibitor. When possible, avoid concurrent use of HMG-reductase inhibitors with drugs known to increase the risk of developing rhabdomyolysis or acute renal failure. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be weighed carefully versus the benefits of combined atorvastatin and imatinib, STI-571 therapy; there is no assurance that periodic monitoring of CK will prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy and renal damage. (Moderate) Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as imatinib, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when imatinib is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored.
Imlunestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if coadministration with isavuconazonium is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, inhibits the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism and P-glycoprotein (P-gp)-mediated transport of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with amlodipine may result in increased serum concentrations of amlodipine. Amlodipine is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Isoflurane: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for atorvastatin-related adverse reactions (i.e., myopathy/rhabdomyolysis) if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary as atorvastatin exposure may be increased. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Coadministration of atorvastatin and istradefylline 40 mg daily increased the atorvastatin exposure by 1.5-fold.
Itraconazole: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with itraconazole is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Itraconazole inhibits the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin. Itraconazole increases the AUC of atorvastatin by 2.5 to 3.3-fold, which is substantially less than the effect of itraconazole on the AUC of simvastatin and lovastatin (increased 19-fold and 20-fold, respectively). (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have a negative inotropic effect that may be additive to those of itraconazole. In addition, itraconazole may increase amlodipine serum concentrations via inhibition of CYP3A4 with the potential for amlodipine toxicity. Edema has been reported in patients receiving concomitantly itraconazole and amlodipine, therefore, caution is recommended when administering these medications in combination. A dosage reduction of the calcium-channel blocker may be appropriate.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketamine: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Ketoconazole inhibits the CYP3A and P-gp-mediated metabolism of atorvastatin. In addition, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may theoretically blunt adrenal and/or gonadal steroid production by interfering with cholesterol synthesis and should be used with caution when given concomitantly with drugs that may decrease the concentrations or activity of endogenous hormones, such as ketoconazole. The clinical relevance of these potential interactions has not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Use lacosamide with caution in patients taking concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction, such as calcium-channel blockers, because of the risk of AV block, bradycardia, or ventricular tachyarrhythmia. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG prior to lacosamide initiation and after treatment has been titrated to steady-state. In addition, monitor patients receiving lacosamide via the intravenous route closely.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Lanreotide: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of bradycardia-inducing drugs (e.g., calcium-channel blockers) may have an additive effect on the reduction of heart rate associated with lanreotide. Adjust the calcium-channel blocker dose if necessary.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8). (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Clarithromycin inhibits the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin.
Lanthanum Carbonate: (Major) To limit absorption problems, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ("statins") should not be taken within 2 hours of dosing with lanthanum carbonate. Oral drugs known to interact with cationic antacids, like statin cholesterol treatments, may also be bound by lanthanum carbonate. Separate the times of administration appropriately. Monitor the patient's lipid profile to ensure the appropriate response to statin therapy is obtained.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with lasmiditan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if lasmiditan is coadministered with calcium-channel blockers as concurrent use may increase the risk for bradycardia. Lasmiditan has been associated with lowering of heart rate. In a drug interaction study, addition of a single 200 mg dose of lasmiditan to another heart rate lowering drug decreased heart rate by an additional 5 beats per minute.
Lazertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate; lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Moderate) Caution and close monitoring of adverse reactions, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, is advised with concomitant administration of atorvastatin and ledipasvir; sofosbuvir. Concurrent use may result in increased atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); ledipasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with oral lefamulin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Leflunomide: (Major) Consider reducing the dose of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ("Statins" including atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, or simvastatin) during use of leflunomide and monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of myopathy. For a patient taking leflunomide, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily. Patients should be advised to report promptly unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever. Following oral administration, leflunomide is metabolized to an active metabolite, teriflunomide, which is responsible for essentially all of leflunomide's in vivo activity. Teriflunomide is an inhibitor of the organic anion transporting polypeptide OATP1B1, and some statins are substrates for the OATP transporters. Teriflunomide may increase the exposure (AUC) of these statins. Increased concentrations of the statins increases the risk for myopathy and other statin-related side effects.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; lenacapavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with lenacapavir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Leniolisib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with leniolisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate; leniolisib is an inhibitor of BCRP and OATP1B1/3.
Letermovir: (Major) Do not exceed an atorvastatin dosage of 20 mg daily and closely monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if coadministration with letermovir is necessary. Concurrent use is not recommended for patients who are also receiving cyclosporine, as the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of atorvastatin may occur during concurrent administration with letermovir. Atorvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and the organic anion-transporting polypeptides 1B1 and 1B3 (OATP1B1/3). Both letermovir and cyclosporine are moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 and inhibitors of OATP1B1; letermovir is also an OATP1B3 inhibitor. Coadministration of letermovir increased the AUC and Cmax of atorvastatin by 3.29-fold and 2.17-fold, respectively. The combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Moderate) Amlodipine dose reductions may be required during concurrent administration with letermovir; monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema to determine the need for dose adjustment. The magnitude of this interaction may be increased in patients who are also receiving cyclosporine. Administering these drugs together may increase amlodipine concentration and risk for adverse events. Amlodipine is a substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent administration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased amlodipine exposure by 60%; however, another moderate inhibitor did not significantly change amlodipine exposure. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase amlodipine exposure to a greater extent.
Levacetylleucine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with levacetylleucine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Ketoconazole inhibits the CYP3A and P-gp-mediated metabolism of atorvastatin. In addition, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may theoretically blunt adrenal and/or gonadal steroid production by interfering with cholesterol synthesis and should be used with caution when given concomitantly with drugs that may decrease the concentrations or activity of endogenous hormones, such as ketoconazole. The clinical relevance of these potential interactions has not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Lisdexamfetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor for neurologic adverse reactions during concomitant use of lithium and calcium channel blockers. Concomitant use may increase the risk of neurologic adverse reactions, such as ataxia, tremors, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and/or tinnitus.
Lomitapide: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and atorvastatin may result in increased lomitapide concentrations. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Atorvastatin is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of atorvastatin and lonafarnib is contraindicated according to the manufacturer of lonafarnib. The manufacturer of atorvastatin recommends that if concomitant use of these drugs is required, a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin should be considered; monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and amlodipine; concurrent use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions and/or symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing amlodipine. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Coadministration of atorvastatin and ritonavir may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if coadministration with lopinavir is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that period monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Atorvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP1B1); lopinavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Lorlatinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and lovastatin against the potential risks. Lovastatin exposure may increase resulting in increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Although FDA-approved labeling for amlodipine or lovastatin do not suggest dose adjustments, guidelines recommend limiting the dose of lovastatin to 20 mg/day if combined with amlodipine. Lovastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the systemic exposure of atorvastatin; if used together, monitor serum lipid concentrations. Atorvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) drug transporter. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggests lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce and/or inhibit P-gp. While the induction of atorvastatin through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport is not clear. (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the systemic exposure and therapeutic efficacy of amlodipine. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the systemic exposure of atorvastatin; if used together, monitor serum lipid concentrations. Atorvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) drug transporter. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggests lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce and/or inhibit P-gp. While the induction of atorvastatin through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport is not clear. (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the systemic exposure and therapeutic efficacy of amlodipine. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Maralixibat: (Minor) Maralixibat may reduce the oral absorption of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, also known as statins, which may reduce their efficacy. This risk is greatest with maralixibat doses greater than 4.75 mg. Monitor statin therapy and adjust the dose as needed based on clinical response. Maralixibat is a OATP2B1 inhibitor and statins are OATP2B1 substrates.
Maraviroc: (Minor) Use caution if coadministration of maraviroc with amlodipine is necessary, due to a possible increase in maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Monitor for an increase in adverse effects with concomitant use.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant calcium-channel blocker and melatonin use. Melatonin may impair the efficacy of calcium-channel blockers. In a placebo-controlled study, melatonin evening ingestion led to significant increases in blood pressure (6.5 mmHg systolic and 4.9 mmHg diastolic) and heart rate (3.9 bpm) throughout the day in patients taking a calcium channel blocker Melatonin appeared to antagonize the antihypertensive effects of the calcium channel blocker.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Methadone: (Moderate) Frequently monitor for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary; consider reducing the dose of methadone if clinically appropriate. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the methadone dose if needed. Methadone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like amlodipine can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone. If amlodipine is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations may decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Methohexital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Midostaurin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate; midostaurin is a dual BCRP/OATP1B1 inhibitor.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Coadministration of atorvastatin with mifepristone may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with mifepristone is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mitotane: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and atorvastatin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of atorvastatin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Modafinil: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as modafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Momelotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with momelotinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate; momelotinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Nafcillin: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as nafcillin, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of amlodipine. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of sirolimus and atorvastatin against the potential risks. The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis may increase with concurrent use. Guidelines recommend limiting the dose of atorvastatin to 10 mg/day when combined with sirolimus unless there is close monitoring of creatinine kinase and symptoms of muscle-related toxicity. However, FDA-approved labeling for sirolimus states that no clinically significant drug-drug interaction was observed with atorvastatin in drug interaction studies and the two drugs may be administered without dose adjustment.
Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Nefazodone: (Major) Caution should be used if nefazodone is administered in combination with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are metabolized by CYP3A4, and dosage adjustments of these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are recommended. There have been reports of rhabdomyolysis and myopathy when nefazodone has been administered to patients receiving statins metabolized by CYP3A4. Consider alternative therapy. Since pravastatin and rosuvastatin are not substantially metabolized and fluvastatin is a minor CYP3A4 substrate (20%), these statins are less likely to be significantly affected by CYP3A4 inhibitors such as nefazodone. (Moderate) Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as nefazodone, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when nefazodone is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Do not exceed 40 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with nelfinavir is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Protease inhibitors inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Neratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with neratinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; neratinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as netupitant, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine; valsartan may be required.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy of atorvastatin if coadministration with nevirapine is necessary; a dose adjustment may be needed. Concomitant use may decrease atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and lipid-modifying dosages of niacin (1 g/day or more). Concomitant use increases the risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially calcium-channel blockers. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of myopathy if nicardipine is coadministered with atorvastatin. Nicardipine is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Coadministration with nicardipine may lead to an increase in serum levels of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates including atorvastatin.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as nilotinib, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine may be required. (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of myopathy if atorvastatin is coadministered with nilotinib. Concurrent use may result in increased atorvastatin exposure. Nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Coadministration of atorvastatin and ritonavir may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Major) Consider temporary discontinuation of atorvastatin during treatment with ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir; if this is not feasible, consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Atorvastatin does not need to be held prior to or after completing ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir. Coadministration may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with nirogacestat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Rifabutin may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of atorvastatin with antacids reduced the plasma concentrations of atorvastatin by approximately 35 percent. However, LDL-cholesterol reduction was not altered.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with orforglipron is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate; orforglipron is a BCRP inhibitor.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Amlodipine is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of amlodipine may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently. (Moderate) Atorvastatin is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of atorvastatin may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Oteseconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with oteseconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate; oteseconazole is a BCRP inhibitor.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
OXcarbazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when oxcarbazepine is coadministered with atorvastatin. Oxcarbazepine, which is a CYP3A4 inducer, may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as oxcarbazepine, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and calcium-channel blockers who are susceptible to hypotension.
Pasireotide: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and amlodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of amlodipine. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly. (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of atorvastatin. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pexidartinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if pexidartinib is coadministered with atorvastatin. Avoid concurrent use in patients with increased serum transaminases, total bilirubin, or direct bilirubin (more than ULN) or active liver or biliary tract disease.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in atorvastatin efficacy if concomitant use with phenytoin is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Pioglitazone: (Minor) Concentrations of atorvastatin may be decreased with concomitant use of pioglitazone. The effect of pioglitazone capistration on the systemic exposure of atorvastatin was determined in a drug-drug interaction study. Coadministration of pioglitazone 45 mg once daily with atorvastatin 80 mg daily for 7 days resulted in a 14% and 23% reduction in atorvastatin AUC and Cmax, respectively. In addition, coadministration resulted in a 24% and 31% reduction in pioglitazone AUC and Cmax, respectively. Patients should be evaluated more frequently with respect to glycemic control and lipid therapy.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Minor) Concentrations of atorvastatin may be decreased with concomitant use of pioglitazone. The effect of pioglitazone capistration on the systemic exposure of atorvastatin was determined in a drug-drug interaction study. Coadministration of pioglitazone 45 mg once daily with atorvastatin 80 mg daily for 7 days resulted in a 14% and 23% reduction in atorvastatin AUC and Cmax, respectively. In addition, coadministration resulted in a 24% and 31% reduction in pioglitazone AUC and Cmax, respectively. Patients should be evaluated more frequently with respect to glycemic control and lipid therapy.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Minor) Concentrations of atorvastatin may be decreased with concomitant use of pioglitazone. The effect of pioglitazone capistration on the systemic exposure of atorvastatin was determined in a drug-drug interaction study. Coadministration of pioglitazone 45 mg once daily with atorvastatin 80 mg daily for 7 days resulted in a 14% and 23% reduction in atorvastatin AUC and Cmax, respectively. In addition, coadministration resulted in a 24% and 31% reduction in pioglitazone AUC and Cmax, respectively. Patients should be evaluated more frequently with respect to glycemic control and lipid therapy.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pirtobrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; pirtobrutinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of posaconazole and atorvastatin is contraindicated due to the risk of myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, and acute renal failure. If treatment with posaconazole is unavoidable, a brief suspension of atorvastatin therapy can be considered. Coadministration of these drugs may result in elevated atorvastatin plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for atorvastatin metabolism. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with posaconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used. The use of alpha-blockers with verapamil can lead to excessive hypotension; In addition, verapamil has been reported to increase the AUC and Cmax of prazosin.
Pretomanid: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with primaquine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; primaquine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of colchicine and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) may increase the risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially following therapy initiation and upward dose titration. The use of low dose colchicine may further reduce the risk for myopathy.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with propafenone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; propafenone is a P-gp inhibitor.
Propofol: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Protease inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased quinidine adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase quinidine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; quinidine is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index. In addition, quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as quinine, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine may be required. (Moderate) Patients receiving concomitant atorvastatin and quinine should be monitored closely for muscle pain or weakness. Lower starting doses of atorvastatin should be considered while patients are receiving quinine. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; therefore, quinine has the potential to inhibit the metabolism of atorvastatin leading to an increased potential of rhabdomyolysis.
Quizartinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with quizartinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate; quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Raltegravir: (Moderate) Raltegravir use has been associated with elevated creatinine kinase concentrations; myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported. Use raltegravir cautiously with drugs that increase the risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis such as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins).
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Ranolazine inhibits CYP3A isoenzymes and P-glycoprotein transport. Although not studied, ranolazine may theoretically increase plasma concentrations of CYP3A4 and/or P-glycoprotein substrates such as atorvastatin. Monitor serum lipid profile and for signs and symptoms of myopathy during coadministration.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider during concurrent use of an MAOI and a calcium-channel blocker.
Red Yeast Rice: (Contraindicated) Since compounds in red yeast rice claim to have HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor activity, red yeast rice should not be used in combination with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. The administration of more than one HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor at one time would be duplicative therapy and perhaps increase the risk of drug-related toxicity including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis.
Relacorilant: (Major) Coadministration of atorvastatin with relacorilant may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with relacorilant is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) The risk of significant hypotension and/or bradycardia during therapy with remifentanil may be increased in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers due to additive hypotensive effects.
Repotrectinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Resmetirom: (Major) Limit the dose of atorvastatin to 40 mg once daily during concomitant use with resmetirom. Concomitant use was observed to increase atorvastatin overall exposure by 1.4-fold which may increase the risk for atorvastatin-related adverse effects.
Ribociclib: (Major) If concomitant use of atorvastatin with ribociclib is necessary, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased atorvastatin exposure by 3.3- to 4.4-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ribociclib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) If concomitant use of atorvastatin with ribociclib is necessary, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased atorvastatin exposure by 3.3- to 4.4-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ribociclib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Rifabutin may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Coadministration of atorvastatin with rifampin may result in variable decreases in atorvastatin exposures, with the potential for reduced antilipemic efficacy. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, atorvastatin and rifampin should be simultaneously administered. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 substrate. Rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and OATP1B1 inhibitor. As a result of the dual interaction mechanisms, delayed administration of atorvastatin after rifampin administration has been associated with a significant reduction in atorvastatin plasma concentrations. To evaluate this interaction, monitor serum lipid concentrations during coadministration. (Moderate) Rifampin is a potent inducer of the cytochrome P450 hepatic enzyme system and can reduce the plasma concentrations and possibly the efficacy of calcium-channel blockers. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with rifapentine is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hepatic injury during coadministration of riluzole and atorvastatin. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Discontinue riluzole if clinical signs of liver dysfunction are present.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP, P-gp, and OATP1B1/3 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a BCRP, P-gp, and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone has been associated with orthostatic hypotension and may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Clinically significant hypotension has been observed with concomitant use of risperidone and antihypertensive medications. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Ritonavir: (Major) Coadministration of atorvastatin and ritonavir may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Saquinavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with saquinavir plus ritonavir is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Protease inhibitors inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Sarilumab: (Moderate) Utilize caution with concomitant use of sarilumab and CYP3A4 substrate drugs, such as atorvastatin, where a decrease in effectiveness is undesirable. Monitor lipid panels and adjust therapy as indicated. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by sarilumab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates as compared to metabolism prior to treatment. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping sarilumab. A 45% decrease in exposure to another "statin" was noted in a drug interaction study. In vitro, sarilumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Secobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Atorvastatin can increase the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives when the drugs are coadministered. These increases should be considered when administering atorvastatin and oral contraceptives concomitantly. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with selpercatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; selpercatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Sevoflurane: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for additive hypotension if amlodipine is administered concurrently with sildenafil, as both agents act independently to reduce blood pressure. When sildenafil 100 mg was co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure (SBP) was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Siltuximab: (Moderate) Caution is warranted in patients receiving siltuximab who are taking CYP3A4 substrates, such as atorvastatin, in which a decreased effect would be undesirable. Monitor the patient's lipid profile as clinically indicated and adjust treatment as necessary. Cytochrome P450s in the liver are down regulated by infection and inflammation stimuli, including cytokines such as interleukin-6 (IL-6). Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by siltuximab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates as compared to metabolism prior to treatment. The effect of siltuximab on CYP450 enzyme activity can persist for several weeks after stopping therapy.
Simvastatin: (Major) Do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 20 mg/day in patients taking amlodipine due to increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on amlodipine, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and simvastatin against the potential risks. Amlodipine increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 1.5-fold.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by calcium-channel blockers. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of results.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of sirolimus and atorvastatin against the potential risks. The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis may increase with concurrent use. Guidelines recommend limiting the dose of atorvastatin to 10 mg/day when combined with sirolimus unless there is close monitoring of creatinine kinase and symptoms of muscle-related toxicity. However, FDA-approved labeling for sirolimus states that no clinically significant drug-drug interaction was observed with atorvastatin in drug interaction studies and the two drugs may be administered without dose adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of amlodipine. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of atorvastatin with antacids reduced the plasma concentrations of atorvastatin by approximately 35 percent. However, LDL-cholesterol reduction was not altered.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Monitor patients closely when atorvastatin is coadministered with velpatasvir as this may significantly increase the serum concentrations of atorvastatin, which may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Atorvastatin is a substrate of the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and OATP1B1 transporters as well as CYP3A4, while velpatasvir inhibits P-gp, OATP1B1, and CYP3A4. (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; velpatasvir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Monitor patients closely when atorvastatin is coadministered with velpatasvir as this may significantly increase the serum concentrations of atorvastatin, which may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Atorvastatin is a substrate of the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and OATP1B1 transporters as well as CYP3A4, while velpatasvir inhibits P-gp, OATP1B1, and CYP3A4. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering voxilaprevir with atorvastatin. Taking these drugs together may increase atorvastatin plasma concentrations; thereby increasing the risk for adverse events, such as myopathy or rhabdomyolysis. Initiate atorvastatin at the lowest approved dose. If higher doses are needed, use the lowest necessary dose based on risk and benefit assessment. Atorvastatin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and Organic Anion Transporting Polypeptides 1B1 (OATP1B1). Voxilaprevir is an inhibitor of both P-gp and OATP1B1. (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; velpatasvir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
SORAfenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sorafenib is necessary. Atorvastatin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and sorafenib is a P-gp inhibitor in vitro. Sorafenib may increase the concentrations of concomitantly administered drugs that are P-gp substrates.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with sotorasib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sotorasib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; sotorasib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sparsentan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Spironolactone: (Minor) Because HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may theoretically blunt adrenal and/or gonadal steroid production by interfering with cholesterol synthesis, the manufacturer recommends that caution should be exercised when atorvastatin is administered concomitantly with drugs that may decrease the concentrations or activity of endogenous hormones, such as spironolactone. The clinical relevance of these potential interactions has not been established.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Because HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may theoretically blunt adrenal and/or gonadal steroid production by interfering with cholesterol synthesis, the manufacturer recommends that caution should be exercised when atorvastatin is administered concomitantly with drugs that may decrease the concentrations or activity of endogenous hormones, such as spironolactone. The clinical relevance of these potential interactions has not been established.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with St. John's Wort is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) St. John's Wort appears to induce several isoenzymes of the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system. Coadministration of St. John's Wort could decrease the efficacy of some medications metabolized by these enzymes including atorvastatin.
Streptogramins: (Moderate) Dalfopristin; quinupristin has been shown to inhibit CYP3A4 and may decrease the elimination of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if amlodipine must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like amlodipine can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If amlodipine is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
Sulindac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of tacrolimus and atorvastatin against the potential risk of statin-induced myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Guidelines recommend lower doses of statins in combination with tacrolimus. Atorvastatin doses above 10 mg/day are not recommended without close monitoring of creatinine kinase and symptoms of muscle-related toxicity. (Moderate) Monitor for increased tacrolimus adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase tacrolimus plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; tacrolimus is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Atorvastatin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
Tepotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with tepotinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Consider reducing the dose of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ("Statins" including atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, or simvastatin) during use of teriflunomide and monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of myopathy. For a patient taking teriflunomide, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily. Patients should be advised to report promptly unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever. Teriflunomide is an inhibitor of the organic anion transporting polypeptide OATP1B1, and some statins are substrates for the OATP transporters. Teriflunomide may increase the exposure (AUC) of these statins. Increased concentrations of the statins increases the risk for myopathy and other statin-related side effects.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide and other agents that slow cardiac conduction such as calcium-channel blockers should be used cautiously due to the potential for additive bradycardia.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with ticagrelor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate and ticagrelor is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with ticagrelor increased the exposure of atorvastatin by 36%.
Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of atorvastatin and tipranavir used in combination with ritonavir due to the increased risk of developing myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Protease inhibitors inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Tocilizumab: (Moderate) Utilize caution with concomitant use of tocilizumab and CYP3A4 substrate drugs, such as atorvastatin, where a decrease in effectiveness is undesirable. Monitor lipid panels and adjust therapy as indicated. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by tocilizumab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates as compared to metabolism prior to treatment. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping tocilizumab. A 57% decrease in the exposure of another "statin" was noted 1 week after a single tocilizumab dose. In vitro, tocilizumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Topiramate: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Closely monitor for signs and symptoms of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and consider atorvastatin dosage adjustment in patients also taking verapamil. Coadministration of verapamil, a P-gp inhibitor, with atorvastatin, a P-gp substrate, may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher statin doses. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with verapamil is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium-channel blockers and tranylcypromine due to the risk of additive hypotension. Potential for this interaction persists for up to 10 days after discontinuation of tranylcypromine (or 4 to 5 half-lives after discontinuation of the calcium-channel blocker). If a medication-free interval is not feasible, initiate therapy at the lowest appropriate dose and monitor blood pressure closely.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Coadministration of atorvastatin with tucatinib may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher doses of atorvastatin. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, consider a lower starting and maintenance dose of atorvastatin and monitor patients carefully for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis (e.g., muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness), particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug. Tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with tucatinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Vadadustat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with vadadustat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate; vadadustat is a BCRP inhibitor.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as valproic acid, divalproex sodium, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and atorvastatin may result in altered concentrations of atorvastatin and increased concentrations of vemurafenib. Vemurafenib is a substrate/inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and an inducer of CYP3A4. Atorvastatin is a substrate of P-gp and CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of P-gp. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy. (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as amlodipine, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of amlodipine when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Vepdegestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Closely monitor for signs and symptoms of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and consider atorvastatin dosage adjustment in patients also taking verapamil. Coadministration of verapamil, a P-gp inhibitor, with atorvastatin, a P-gp substrate, may increase atorvastatin exposure resulting in atorvastatin-related toxicity; the risk may be increased with higher statin doses. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with verapamil is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with calcium channel blockers is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use with calcium channel blockers could enhance the rate of verteporfin uptake by the vascular endothelium, resulting in enhanced photosensitivity.
Vimseltinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with vimseltinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; vimseltinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and lipid-modifying dosages of niacin (1 g/day or more). Concomitant use increases the risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially calcium-channel blockers. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with voclosporin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and OATP1B1 substrate; voclosporin is a P-gp and OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8). (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg/day of atorvastatin if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Clarithromycin inhibits the CYP3A4 metabolism of atorvastatin.
Voriconazole: (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if coadministration with voriconazole is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Voriconazole inhibits the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voriconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with amlodipine is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance. (Moderate) Per the manufacturer of atorvastatin, a clinically significant effect on the prothrombin time when atorvastatin is administered to patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy has not been documented. In a study by the manufacturer, patients chronically maintained on warfarin were administered atorvastatin (80 mg/day) for 2 weeks. Mean prothrombin times decreased slightly, but only for the first few days of treatment. Per prescribing information for warfarin sodium (Coumadin), however, all HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), including atorvastatin, have been associated with potentiation of warfarin's clinical effect. In patients taking atorvastatin, it may be prudent to monitor the INR at baseline, at initiation of atorvastatin, and after subsequent dosage changes. Adjust warfarin dosage based on INR and clinical response. Once a stable INR is documented, the INR can be monitored at the intervals otherwise recommended based on the indication for anticoagulation and co-existing conditions.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Zafirlukast is a CYP3A4 inhibitor which theoretically may decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.
Zongertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with zongertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate; zongertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with zonisamide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; zonisamide is a P-gp inhibitor.


Adverse Reaction
arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, flushing, palpitations, peripheral edema, syncope, vasculitis, ventricular tachycardia


Peripheral edema was the most commonly reported adverse reaction in 2 clinical trials, occurring in 32.4% and 13.6% of adult patients in the CAMELOT and PREVENT studies, respectively. Edema (1.8% to 10.8% vs. 0.6% placebo), flushing (0.7% to 2.6% vs. 0% placebo), and palpitations (0.7% to 4.5% vs. 0.6%) appear to be dose-related and to occur more frequently in females than males. Arrhythmia exacerbation (including ventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation), bradycardia, syncope, chest pain (unspecified), peripheral ischemia, sinus tachycardia, and vasculitis have been reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established. Since the peripheral vasodilation induced by amlodipine is gradual in onset, acute hypotension has rarely been reported after oral administration. Nonetheless, as with any other peripheral vasodilator, exercise caution when administering amlodipine; atorvastatin to patients at risk of hypotension, such as those with severe aortic stenosis. Although calcium-channel blockers like amlodipine are effective drugs for treating angina, worsening of angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine, particularly in patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease.


arthralgia, back pain, elevated creatine kinase, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, myoglobinuria, myopathy, renal failure, rhabdomyolysis, tendon rupture, weakness


Atorvastatin can cause myopathy (muscle pain, muscle tenderness, or muscle weakness (myasthenia) associated with elevated creatine kinase (CK) concentrations and rhabdomyolysis. Acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria and rare fatalities have occurred as a result of rhabdomyolysis in subjects treated with statins, including atorvastatin. During atorvastatin clinical trials, myalgia occurred in 3.5% (2.7% to 8.4%) of subjects taking atorvastatin compared to 3.1% of subjects treated with placebo. Other frequent musculoskeletal adverse reactions occurring in adult subjects during atorvastatin clinical trials were muscle spasms (2.4% to 5.1% vs. 3%), musculoskeletal pain (2.3% to 5.2% vs. 3.6%), pain in the extremity (3.1% to 9.3% vs. 5.9%), arthralgia (4.3% to 11.7% vs. 6.5%), muscle fatigue, neck pain, joint swelling, and increased CK concentrations. Rhabdomyolysis, myositis, and tendon rupture have been reported with postmarketing atorvastatin therapy. Muscle cramps occurred in 2% or less and arthralgia, arthrosis, back pain, pain, myalgia, and rigors occurred in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients during controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established. Based on postmarketing reports, there is a possible association between amlodipine and extrapyramidal disorder. Discontinue atorvastatin if markedly elevated CK concentrations occur and myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. Temporarily discontinue atorvastatin in subjects experiencing an acute or serious condition at high risk of developing renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis (e.g., sepsis, shock, severe hypovolemia, major surgery, trauma, severe metabolic disorders, severe endocrine disease, severe electrolyte imbalance, or uncontrolled seizure disorder).


immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy


Immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy, has occurred rarely (1 to 3 of every 100,000 patients) with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, such as atorvastatin. Recurrence of IMNM has been reported following administration of the same or a different statin. IMNM is characterized by myalgia with symmetrical and proximal muscle weakness and elevated creatine kinase, which persist despite discontinuation of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor treatment. Some cases have occurred months to years after starting HMG-CoA reductase therapy and the myopathy progressed following therapy discontinuation. Other characteristics include positive anti-HMG-CoA reductase antibody, muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy, and improvement with immunosuppressive agents. Dysphagia and respiratory failure have also been reported in patients with IMNM. Reported creatine kinase concentrations have ranged from 576 to 35,000 International Units/L. Patients who develop IMNM may require additional neuromuscular and serologic testing. If IMNM develops, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy should be discontinued and treatment with immunosuppressants, such as high dose corticosteroids, intravenous immune globulin (IVIG), or other immunosuppressive agents, may be needed.


cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, pancreatitis


Increases in hepatic transaminases have been reported with atorvastatin. In most cases, these changes appeared soon after initiation, were transient, were not associated with symptoms, and resolved or improved on continued therapy or after temporary discontinuation of therapy. Consider assessing liver function tests (LFTs) prior to initiation of amlodipine; atorvastatin and then repeat as clinically indicated thereafter. If serious liver injury with clinical symptoms and/or hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs during treatment with amlodipine; atorvastatin, promptly discontinue therapy. During clinical trials, 0.7% of patients developed persistent elevated hepatic enzymes while receiving atorvastatin. The incidence of transaminase elevations was dose-related with persistent elevations occurring in 0.2%, 0.2%, 0.6%, and 2.3% of patients receiving 10, 20, 40, and 80 mg, respectively. One patient in clinical trials with atorvastatin developed jaundice. Increases in liver function tests (LFT) in other patients were not associated with jaundice or other clinical signs or symptoms. Upon dose reduction, drug interruption, or discontinuation, transaminase levels returned to or near pretreatment levels without sequelae. Eighteen of 30 patients with persistent LFT elevations continued treatment with a reduced dose of atorvastatin. Hepatitis and cholestasis have been reported in adult individuals receiving atorvastatin in placebo-controlled trials. Pancreatitis and hepatic failure (fatal and non-fatal) have been reported with use of atorvastatin in postmarketing reports. Jaundice, elevated hepatic enzymes (mainly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis), in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization, and pancreatitis have also been reported with postmarketing use of amlodipine.


depression, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, insomnia, malaise


Dizziness, reported in 1.1% to 3.4% of amlodipine-treated patients compared to 1.5% of placebo-treated patients, appears to be dose-related adverse reaction and to occur more frequently in females than males. Other adverse reactions reported with amlodipine include fatigue (4.5% vs. 2.8% placebo) and drowsiness or somnolence (1.4% vs. 0.6%). During atorvastatin clinical trials, insomnia (1.1% to 5.3% vs. 2.9% placebo) and malaise were reported with atorvastatin therapy. Depression, dizziness, and fatigue have been reported with postmarketing use of atorvastatin.


abnormal dreams, asthenia, hot flashes, hypoesthesia, nightmares


Asthenia was reported in 2% or less and hypoesthesia, nervousness or anxiety, depression, abnormal dreams, hot flashes or flushes, and depersonalization have been reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or postmarketing experience; however, a casual relationship has not been established. Nightmares have been reported with atorvastatin in clinical trials.


abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, eructation, flatulence, gingival hyperplasia, nausea, vomiting, weight gain, weight loss, xerostomia


In placebo-controlled studies, nausea was reported at an incidence of 2.9% with amlodipine and 3.7% to 7.1% with atorvastatin. Abdominal pain was reported more frequently with amlodipine than with placebo (1.6% vs. 0.3%) and did not appear to be dose-related. Other gastrointestinal-related adverse reactions reported with amlodipine at an incidence of less than 1% include: anorexia, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, flatulence, gingival hyperplasia, weight gain, weight loss, and xerostomia (dry mouth). Diarrhea was reported more frequently with atorvastatin (5.2% to 14.1%) and was among the most common reasons for discontinuation. Dyspepsia occurred in 3.2% to 6% of atorvastatin-treated patients compared to 4.3% of placebo-treated patients. Abdominal discomfort, eructation, and flatulence have also been reported in adult patients receiving atorvastatin in placebo-controlled trials.


gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease


Sexual dysfunction, such as impotence (erectile dysfunction) and libido decrease, has been reported in less than 1% of females and 2% or less in males. During post-marketing surveillance, gynecomastia was infrequently reported during amlodipine therapy; however, a causal relationship is uncertain. Gynecomastia has also been reported with statin therapy. Monitor patients for this potential adverse effect while receiving amlodipine; atorvastatin.


dyspnea, epistaxis, fever, interstitial lung disease, pharyngitis


Among individuals treated with atorvastatin in clinical trials, 4.2% to 12.9% experienced naso-pharyngitis and 1.6% to 3.9% experienced pharyngolaryngeal pain compared to 8.2% and 2.1%, respectively, of placebo-treated patients. Epistaxis and fever were reported in atorvastatin clinical trials and interstitial lung disease reported with postmarketing use of atorvastatin. Dyspnea was reported in 2% or less and epistaxis in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients during controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bullous rash, diaphoresis, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, pruritus, purpura, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Pruritus and rash were reported in 2% or less of amlodipine-treated patients during clinical trials. Angioedema, allergic reactions, erythema multiforme, rash erythematous, maculopapular rash, purpura, and diaphoresis (increased sweating) in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established. Urticaria was reported in placebo-controlled atorvastatin studies. Anaphylaxis (anaphylactoid reactions), angioneurotic edema, bullous rash, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported with postmarketing use of atorvastatin.


peripheral neuropathy


Peripheral neuropathy has been reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established. An association between HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including atorvastatin, and peripheral neuropathy has been reported in the literature (case series, case-control studies, cohort studies). In a nested case-control study of a Danish population, the odds ratio for idiopathic peripheral neuropathy in 166 patients that ever or were currently taking a statin, was 3.7 (95% CI 1.8 to 7.6); similar results have been found in other population based studies, although the number of patients studied was significantly smaller. Case reports and series indicate that the onset of neuropathy is typically more than a 1 year after drug initiation and is reversible with drug discontinuation. However, cases describing irreversible neuropathy are also reported. The adverse effect appears to be a class effect because in all cases, when a patient is either rechallenged or treated with a different statin, the symptoms of neuropathy return. While the data appear to support an association between HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and peripheral neuropathy, the incidence is rare and estimated to be approximately 1 per 14,000 person-years. Furthermore, a causal relationship cannot be definitively established based on the observational nature of the available data. Peripheral neuropathy has also been reported with postmarketing atorvastatin therapy.


dysarthria, dysphagia, muscle paralysis


Dysphagia has been reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients during clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, Lou Gehrig's Disease) has been reported to the FDA in a higher than expected number of patients taking statins. ALS is a progressive motor neuron disorder with symptoms such as difficulty walking or standing, difficulty with fine motor skills, atrophy of tongue and hand muscles, dysphagia, dysarthria, and muscle paralysis. Due to the seriousness of ALS and the extensive use of statins, FDA further examined data from 41 long-term controlled clinical trials. The results of the review showed no increased incidence of ALS in patients treated with a statin compared with placebo. Specifically, 9 of approximately 64,000 patients treated with a statin (4.2 cases per 100,000 patient-years) and 10 of approximately 56,000 patients treated with placebo (5 case per 100,000 patient-years) were diagnosed with ALS.


diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia, polydipsia


Hyperglycemia and thirst (polydipsia) have been reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established. Diabetes mellitus and hyperglycemia have been reported with the use of atorvastatin. In the SPARCL trial, diabetes was reported in 6.1% of patients in the atorvastatin group compared to 3.8% in the placebo. A meta-analysis of 13 statin trials with 91,140 participants showed a slight increase in the risk of the development of diabetes mellitus in statin-treated patients compared to patients taking a control. During a mean statin exposure of 4 years, 174 more cases of incident diabetes were reported in the patients assigned to statin therapy than in the patients receiving placebo or standard-care, which represents a 9% increase in the likelihood of the development of diabetes (OR 1.09. 95% CI 1.02 to 1.17) or 1 additional case of diabetes for every 255 patients taking statin therapy. The risk of incident diabetes associated with statin therapy was stronger in older patients; there was no difference in the risk for diabetes between statins. The occurrence of diabetes was lowest in the primary prevention trials, which consisted of patients with low diabetes risk (i.e., low BMI); the risk was highest in trials that included high-risk patients (i.e., age 70 to 82 years with or at high risk of cardiovascular disease, myocardial infarction within the last 6 months, or heart failure). Because the absolute risk for the development of diabetes is low and is outweighed by the benefit of statins for cardiovascular risk reduction, no change to clinical practice is recommended in patients at moderate or high risk for cardiovascular disease or those with existing cardiovascular disease. However, the increased risk of diabetes should be considered when initiating amlodipine; atorvastatin therapy in patients at low risk for cardiovascular events and in patient groups where the cardiovascular benefit of statin therapy has not been established.


stroke


A higher incidence of hemorrhagic stroke was seen in patients receiving atorvastatin 80 mg/day PO compared to placebo (55, 2.3% atorvastatin vs. 33, 1.4% placebo; HR: 1.68, 95% CI: 1.09, 2.59; p=0.0168) in a post-hoc analysis of the Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels (SPARCL) study. SPARCL consisted of 4,731 subjects without CHD who had a stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) within the previous 6 months who were administered atorvastatin 80 mg/day PO or placebo. The incidence of fatal hemorrhagic stroke was similar across treatment groups (17 vs. 18 for the atorvastatin and placebo groups, respectively). However, the incidence of nonfatal hemorrhagic stroke was significantly higher in the atorvastatin group (38, 1.6%) compared to the placebo group (16, 0.7%). The risk of hemorrhagic stroke was increased in those having hemorrhagic stroke as the qualifying study entry event (HR 5.65, 95% CI 2.82 to 11.30, p less than 0.001), males (HR 1.79, 95% CI 1.13 to 2.84, p = 0.01), and those with increasing age (10 year increments, HR 1.42, 95% CI 1.16 to 1.74, p = 0.001). Additionally, patients having stage 2 hypertension (defined by JNC-7) at the last study visit prior to a hemorrhagic stroke were also at increased risk (HR 6.19, 95% CI 1.47 to 26.11, p = 0.01). There was no relationship between the risk of hemorrhagic stroke and baseline or recent LDL level in atorvastatin-treated patients.


Co-Enzyme Q-10 deficiency


HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), such as atorvastatin, inhibit the synthesis of mevalonate and decrease Co-Enzyme Q-10 concentrations, which may lead to Co-Enzyme Q-10 deficiency. Supplementation with vitamin Co-Enzyme Q-10 may limit potential adverse reactions.


amnesia, confusion, memory impairment


Rare cases of cognitive impairment (e.g., memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia, memory impairment, confusion) have been associated with the use of statins. A review of available data by the FDA did not find an association between the event and a specific statin, statin dose, concomitant medication, or age of the patient. In general, postmarketing reports described patients over the age of 50 years who experienced notable, but ill-defined memory loss or impairment that was reversible upon statin discontinuation. The cases did not appear to be associated with progressive or fixed dementia. The time to symptom onset (1 day to years) and resolution (median 3 weeks) is variable.


myasthenia gravis


Statin therapy, including atorvastatin, has been associated with rare reports of new-onset of exacerbation of myasthenia gravis (including ocular myasthenia) and reports of recurrence when the same or a different statin was administered. In a review of adult individuals enrolled at a neuromuscular disease clinic over a 4-year time period, 6 of 54 myasthenia gravis patients (11%) receiving statin therapy experienced worsening myasthenia gravis. In a disproportionality analysis of the World Health Organization's VigiBase pharmacovigilance database, 169 of 3,967 (4.2%) adverse reactions with the term 'myasthenia gravis and related conditions' were related to statin therapy. The reporting odds ratio (ROR) of myasthenia gravis relative to all other adverse reactions was 2.66 [95% CI: 2.28, 3.1] for statin therapy. In addition, the ROR was greater than 1 and statistically significant for all individual statins except lovastatin. The onset of symptoms following initiation of statin therapy has ranged from 1 week to 4 months for exacerbation and 6 months to 6 years for induction of myasthenia gravis. Partial or complete recovery has been reported following discontinuation of statin therapy; however, some patients have required treatment with pyridostigmine or immunosuppressive agents. Though this appears to be a rare adverse reaction, clinicians should closely monitor patients with myasthenia gravis for disease exacerbation and encourage them to report any muscle-related symptoms.


leukopenia, thrombocytopenia


Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia were reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established.


blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, ocular pain, tinnitus, visual impairment


Conjunctivitis, diplopia, ocular pain, tinnitus, and visual impairment (abnormal vision) occurred in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established. Blurred vision and tinnitus were reported with atorvastatin therapy in clinical trials.


increased urinary frequency, infection, nocturia


Urinary tract infection occurred in 4.1% to 8% of atorvastatin-treated patients compared to 5.6% of placebo-treated patients during clinical trials. White blood cells in the urine was also reported in atorvastatin studies. Increased urinary frequency, micturition disorder, and nocturia occurred in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trial, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established.


Description

Amlodipine; atorvastatin is an oral antihypertensive and antilipemic combination product that may be substituted for its individually titrated components. Amlodipine, a dihydropyridine calcium-channel blocker and potent vasodilator, is used for the treatment of hypertension, chronic stable angina pectoris, and/or Prinzmetal's variant angina. Atorvastatin, a selective, competitive HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, is primarily used to lower cholesterol and triglycerides in adults patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, primary dyslipidemia, primary hyperlipidemia, and in adult and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. Atorvastatin is also used in adults to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in individuals with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD); and to reduce risk of MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes with multiple risk factors for CHD; and to reduce the risk of non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in those with clinically evident CHD. Atorvastatin 40 mg or 80 mg once daily is considered to be a high-intensity statin (expected to lower LDL-C by 50% or more), while atorvastatin 10 mg or 20 mg once daily is considered to be a moderate-intensity statin (expected to lower LDL-C by 30% to 49%).

Mechanism Of Action

Amlodipine; atorvastatin is an oral combination of a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker and an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor.
Amlodipine: Amlodipine inhibits the influx of extracellular calcium across cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle cell membranes. While serum calcium levels remain unchanged, intracellular concentrations decrease. The decrease in intracellular calcium inhibits the contractility of smooth muscle cells resulting in dilation of coronary and systemic arteries. This dilation results in decreased vascular resistance, increased coronary blood flow, and increased oxygen delivery to myocardial tissue. Myocardial oxygen consumption is also reduced. As with other dihydropyridine class calcium channel blockers, amlodipine exerts its effects mainly on arteriolar vasculature. It has no significant effect on sinus node function or cardiac conduction, nor does it possess negative inotropic effects at clinical doses. Because it has a gradual onset, reflex tachycardia does not occur, a side effect that is common with other peripheral vasodilators. Amlodipine therapy usually does not affect hemodynamic parameters in patients with normal ventricular function.
Atorvastatin: Atorvastatin is a selective, competitive inhibitor of hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, an enzyme necessary for the intracellular synthesis of cholesterol. HMG-CoA reductase is the rate-limiting hepatic enzyme responsible for converting HMG-CoA to mevalonate, a precursor of sterols including cholesterol. Inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase lowers the amount of mevalonate and subsequently reduces cholesterol levels in hepatic cells. This, in turn, results in up-regulation of LDL-receptors and increased hepatic uptake of LDL-cholesterol from the circulation. Atorvastatin ultimately reduces the levels of circulating total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and serum triglycerides. Drug dosage rather than systemic drug concentration correlates better with LDL-cholesterol reduction. As with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, atorvastatin exhibits no effects on antipyrine hepatic metabolism. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been reported to decrease endogenous CoQ10 serum concentrations; the clinical significance of these effects is unknown.


Pharmacokinetics

Amlodipine; atorvastatin is administered orally.
Amlodipine: Amlodipine is approximately 93% bound to plasma proteins. Amlodipine is extensively metabolized to inactive compounds by the liver with 10% of the parent compound and 60% of the inactive metabolites excreted in the urine. Elimination of amlodipine is biphasic and the terminal half-life is about 30 to 50 hours. Steady-state plasma concentrations are reached after 7 to 8 days of consecutive daily dosing.
Atorvastatin: Atorvastatin is 98% or more bound to plasma proteins and has a mean volume of distribution of 381 L. A blood:plasma ratio of 0.25 indicates poor drug penetration into red blood cells. Atorvastatin undergoes extensive metabolism to active ortho- and para-hydroxylated metabolites that account for approximately 70% of the circulating HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity. Based on in vitro studies, CYP3A4 may also contribute to metabolism. In animals, the ortho-hydroxy metabolite is further metabolized by glucuronidation. Elimination of atorvastatin and its metabolites occurs primarily in bile following hepatic and/or extrahepatic metabolism. It does not appear that the drug undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, and less than 2% of an oral dose is recovered in the urine. The mean plasma elimination half-life is approximately 14 hours, however, the half-life of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity is 20 to 30 hours because of the active metabolites.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporter: CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), OATP1B1, OATP1B3, breast cancer resistant protein (BCRP)
Amlodipine and atorvastatin are CYP3A4 substrates, and their metabolism may be affected by CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. Atorvastatin is both a substrate and inhibitor of P-gp. Atorvastatin is also a substrate of the hepatic transporters, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 transporter and the efflux transporter, BCRP. Atorvastatin metabolites are substrates of OATP1B1.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

There are no significant differences in the rate and extent of absorption (bioavailability) of either amlodipine or atorvastatin following administration as separate medications or as a combination amlodipine; atorvastatin tablet. Following oral administration of amlodipine; atorvastatin tablets, peak plasma concentrations are achieved at 6 to 12 hours for amlodipine and 1 to 2 hours for atorvastatin. Food decreases the rate and extent of atorvastatin absorption by approximately 32% and 11%, respectively, following administration of amlodipine; atorvastatin tablets as it does when atorvastatin is administered alone. LDL-cholesterol reduction is similar whether amlodipine; atorvastatin tablets are given with or without food.
Amlodipine: After oral administration, peak plasma concentrations are achieved between 6 and 12 hours. Oral bioavailability ranges from 64 to 90%; food does not appear to influence these parameters.
Atorvastatin: Following oral administration, atorvastatin is rapidly absorbed with peak plasma concentrations occurring within 1 to 2 hours. The extent of absorption increases in proportion to the dose of atorvastatin. The absolute bioavailability is approximately 14% and the systemic availability of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity is approximately 30%. Pre-systemic clearance and/or hepatic first-pass metabolism accounts for the low systemic bioavailability. Atorvastatin plasma concentrations are lower following evening administration compared with morning dosing; however, LDL-cholesterol reduction is the same regardless of the time of day the drug is administered.


Hepatic Impairment


Amlodipine: Amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver; clearance is decreased in patients with hepatic impairment. In these patients, the AUC is increased by 40 to 60%.
Atorvastatin: Cmax and AUC are both 4-fold greater in patients with Child-Pugh Class A hepatic disease. Cmax and AUC are approximately 16-fold and 11-fold increased, respectively, in patients with Child-Pugh Class B hepatic disease. In patients with chronic alcoholic hepatic disease, atorvastatin plasma concentrations are increased.


Renal Impairment


Amlodipine: The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not significantly affected by renal impairment.
Atorvastatin: Renal disease has no influence on atorvastatin plasma concentrations or LDL-cholesterol reductions; no dosage adjustments are needed. Since atorvastatin is highly bound to plasma proteins; hemodialysis does not enhance the clearance of atorvastatin or its metabolites.


Pediatrics

Children and Adolescents
The safety and efficacy of amlodipine; atorvastatin tablets have not been established in pediatric patients.
Amlodipine: Weight-adjusted clearance and volume of distribution were similar to values observed in adults during clinical trials (n = 62; age range: 6 to 17 years). In a pharmacokinetic study, older children and adolescents with body weights similar to that of adults demonstrated similar pharmacokinetic parameters. However, children younger than 6 years demonstrated a weight-normalized clearance of 1 +/- 0.33 L/kg/hour compared to 0.63 +/- 0.36 L/kg/hour for those 6 to 12 years and 0.4 +/- 0.16 L/kg/hour for those 13 to 18 years. Amlodipine serum concentrations were similar whether amlodipine was dosed once or twice daily.
Atorvastatin: In an open-label, population pharmacokinetic study, oral clearance of atorvastatin in pediatric patients (n = 29; age range: 10 to 17 years) was similar to that of adults when scaled for body weight. Based on the results of a population pharmacokinetic study (n=39), the oral clearance of atorvastatin in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age is similar to that reported in adult patients. The estimated oral clearance in Tanner Stage 1 (approximately 35 kg) and Tanner Stage 2 (approximately 50 kg) patients was 533 L/hour and 543 L/hour, respectively, compared to an estimated clearance of 699 L/hour in adults. Weight was the primary factor affecting the variability of atorvastatin pharmacokinetics in pediatric patients.


Geriatric


Amlodipine: In the elderly population, the elimination half-life of single 5 mg oral doses is significantly prolonged (48 vs. 30 to 50 hours). Geriatric patients have decreased clearance of amlodipine resulting in an AUC increase of approximately 40% to 60%.
Atorvastatin: Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin are higher (about 40% for Cmax and 30% for AUC) in healthy elderly subjects (65 years old or more) than in young adults.


Gender Differences


Atorvastatin: Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin are higher for women compared to men (approximately 20% higher for Cmax and 10% lower for AUC); however, there are no clinically significant differences in LDL-cholesterol reduction.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


May be administered without regard to meals.
Swallow tablets whole; do not break.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

10 mg/day PO amlodipine and 80 mg/day PO atorvastatin.

Geriatric

10 mg/day PO amlodipine and 80 mg/day PO atorvastatin.

Adolescents

5 mg/day PO amlodipine and 20 mg/day PO atorvastatin.

Children

10 to 12 years: 5 mg/day PO amlodipine and 20 mg/day PO atorvastatin.
1 to 9 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 10mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 20mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 40mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 80mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 2.5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 10mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 2.5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 20mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 2.5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 40mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 10mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 20mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 40mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 80mg Oral tablet

Caduet 10mg-10mg Tablet

Caduet 10mg-20mg Tablet

Caduet 10mg-40mg Tablet

Caduet 10mg-80mg Tablet

Caduet 5mg-10mg Tablet

Caduet 5mg-20mg Tablet

Caduet 5mg-40mg Tablet

Caduet 5mg-80mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Acute hepatic failure or decompensated cirrhosis are contraindications to the use of amlodipine; atorvastatin.

Renal Impairment

Amlodipine pharmacokinetics are not significantly influenced by renal impairment. Renal impairment has no influence on atorvastatin plasma concentrations or LDL cholesterol reductions. No dosage adjustments are needed.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Amlodipine and atorvastatin are highly protein bound, and are not expected to be removed by hemodialysis.

© 2026 Elsevier