=== Cholestyramine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 124)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Cholestyramine is a polymeric resin, administered orally to bind bile acids.

Routes: oral, topical; Common adult doses: 24 g/day PO for hypercholesterolemia; 16 g/day PO for pruritus.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dyspnea, urticaria, wheezing, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, rash (unspecified), skin irritation, anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, neuropathic pain, paresthesias, syncope, tinnitus, vertigo, diuresis, dysuria, hematuria, hypoprothrombinemia, night blindness, vitamin a deficiency, vitamin d deficiency, vitamin k deficiency, edema, libido increase, uveitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Cholestyramine is contraindicated in patients with complete biliary obstruction where bile is not secreted into the intestine. In addition, because secretion of bile acids into the GI tract is impaired in patients with cholelithiasis, cholestyramine should be used cautiously in these patients.

Brand Names
  - Locholest
  - Locholest Light
  - Prevalite
  - Questran
  - Questran Light

Dosage Forms
  - Cholestyramine 4g Powder for Oral susp/PWD
  - Cholestyramine Bulk powder
  - CLINOIN Topical Cream Compounding Kit
  - Prevalite 4g Powder for Suspension (Orange)
  - Questran 4g Powder for Suspension
  - Questran Light 4g Powder for Suspension

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Bile acid sequestrants are expected to lower LDL-C by 10% to 27%.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (anhydrous cholestyramine resin)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        4 g PO 1 to 2 times daily, initially. Monitor lipid concentrations at intervals of not less than 4 weeks and adjust dose as needed. Usual dose: 4 to 8 g PO twice daily. May administer in 1 to 6 doses/day. Max: 24 g/day.
        Heading
        Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        240 mg/kg/day PO divided in 2 to 3 doses. Monitor lipid concentrations at intervals of not less than 4 weeks and adjust dose as needed. May administer in 1 to 6 doses/day. Usual Max: 8 g/day. The safety and efficacy of long-term administration in maintaining lowered cholesterol concentrations are unknown.
    Heading
    For treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia or hyperlipoproteinemia as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated total-C and LDL-C
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (anhydrous cholestyramine resin)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        4 g PO 1 to 2 times daily, initially. Usual dose: 4 to 8 g PO twice daily. May administer in 1 to 6 doses/day. Max: 24 g/day.
    Heading
    For the treatment of pruritus associated with biliary stasis
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        4 g PO up to 4 times daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of diarrhea† due to bile acid malabsorption

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Cholestyramine is contraindicated in patients with complete biliary obstruction where bile is not secreted into the intestine. In addition, because secretion of bile acids into the GI tract is impaired in patients with cholelithiasis, cholestyramine should be used cautiously in these patients. Cholestyramine should also be used cautiously in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis because it can further raise serum cholesterol.
 
Bile acid resins have been reported to increase serum triglyceride concentrations and should be used with caution in patients with hypertriglyceridemia. Bile acid resins such as cholestyramine are contraindicated in patients with a serum triglyceride concentration > 400 mg/dl and are relatively contraindicated in patients with a serum triglyceride concentration > 200 mg/dl. Bile acid resins are also contraindicated in patients with dysbetalipoproteinemia.
 
Cholestyramine should be avoided in patients with GI obstruction because the drug causes constipation. Patients with preexisting constipation are at increased risk of developing fecal impaction. Hemorrhoids may be aggravated if constipation develops while taking cholestyramine. The drug should also be used with caution in patients with dysphagia, swallowing disorders, severe gastrointestinal motility disorders (e.g., ileus), or major gastrointestinal tract surgery.
 
Because cholestyramine can bind with vitamin K, cholestyramine is relatively contraindicated in patients with any preexisting coagulopathy (e.g., hemophilia) (see Interactions).
 
Questran Light contains the sweetener aspartame, which contains phenylalanine. Questran Light should not be used in patients with phenylketonuria.
 
Because cholestyramine can bind with exogenous thyroid hormones if administered simultaneously, cholestyramine is relatively contraindicated in patients with hypothyroidism (see Interactions).
 
Prolonged therapy with cholestyramine should be used with caution in patients with renal disease or renal failure because the cholestyramine resin releases chloride, which can increase the risk of developing hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis.
 
Cholestyramine is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category B. Cholestyramine is not absorbed systemically and is therefore not expected to cause fetal harm during pregnancy. However, cholestyramine is known to interfere with the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins in pregnancy, which may lead to deficiencies even with supplementation. Maternal vitamin K deficiencies may lead to fetal deficiencies, resulting in coagulopathy and possible fetal death. In general, cholestyramine should only be used for symptomatic relief of pruritus secondary to cholestasis in pregnancy; dyslipidemias should be controlled with diet. Monitor the patient's INR and supplement with vitamin K, if needed. In addition, other fat-soluble vitamins may need to be supplemented.
 
Because the drug is not systemically absorbed, cholestyramine has no specific precautions for use in breast-feeding women. However, prolonged use of cholestyramine may result in decreased absorption of fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, and K) in the mother and could potentially reduce vitamin concentrations in maternal milk.
 
There is limited data available on the use of cholestyramine in children. The effects of lowering cholesterol levels in children over the long-term have not been established.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Cholestyramine may reduce absorption of fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K. Chronic cholestyramine therapy may increase bleeding risk secondary to hypoprothrombinemia from vitamin K deficiency.
    Headline
    biliary obstruction
    General Information
    Cholestyramine is contraindicated in patients with complete biliary obstruction where bile is not secreted into the intestine.
    Headline
    hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine, have been reported to increase serum triglyceride concentrations and should be used with caution in patients with hypertriglyceridemia. Guidelines recommend avoiding bile acid sequestrants in individuals with a triglyceride concentration of 300 mg/dL or more and state that it may be reasonable to use these agents in individuals with a triglyceride concentration of 250 to 299 mg/dL. Discontinue cholestyramine therapy if triglycerides exceed 400 mg/dL.
    Headline
    constipation, gastrointestinal surgery, geriatric, hemorrhoids, intestinal obstruction
    General Information
    Cholestyramine may worsen pre-existing constipation and increase the risk of fecal impaction. Geriatric adults (60 years or older) and those taking high doses of cholestyramine may have a higher risk of developing constipation. Use caution in individuals with gastrointestinal motility disorders involving the small or large intestines, recent abdominal or gastrointestinal surgery, or a history of intestinal obstruction. Hemorrhoids may be aggravated if constipation develops while taking cholestyramine. Dose adjustments may be needed to reduce the risk of worsening constipation. Advise individuals to increase fluid and fiber intake while taking cholestyramine.
    Headline
    phenylketonuria
    General Information
    Cholestyramine products may contain phenylalanine. Use phenylalanine-containing cholestyramine products with caution in individuals with phenylketonuria.
    Headline
    hypovolemia, renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Prolonged therapy with cholestyramine may cause hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis due to the exchange of chloride anions for bile acids within the small intestines. Potential risk factors for the development of hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis include renal impairment, renal failure, hypovolemia, concomitant use of spironolactone, and younger or smaller individuals where the relative dosage may be higher.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine, are the treatment of choice for hypercholesterolemia during pregnancy. Cholestyramine is not systemically absorbed; therefore, fetal exposure is not expected. There are no adequate, well-controlled studies in humans, and animal studies in rats and rabbits have not demonstrated reproductive toxicity. Bile acid sequestrants may reduce absorption of fat-soluble vitamins; although data in pregnant individuals are lacking, maternal vitamin K deficiency may result in fetal deficiency, coagulopathy, and possible fetal death. Prenatal vitamin supplementation may not be sufficient. Pregnant patients managed with bile acid sequestrants should be monitored for vitamin K deficiency.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Cholestyramine is considered compatible with breast-feeding. It is not systemically absorbed and is not expected to be present in human milk. It should be noted, however, that prolonged use of bile acid sequestrants may result in decreased absorption of fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, and K) in the patient and could potentially reduce vitamin concentrations in milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine, are the treatment of choice for hypercholesterolemia during pregnancy. Cholestyramine is not systemically absorbed; therefore, fetal exposure is not expected. There are no adequate, well-controlled studies in humans, and animal studies in rats and rabbits have not demonstrated reproductive toxicity. Bile acid sequestrants may reduce absorption of fat-soluble vitamins; although data in pregnant individuals are lacking, maternal vitamin K deficiency may result in fetal deficiency, coagulopathy, and possible fetal death. Prenatal vitamin supplementation may not be sufficient. Pregnant patients managed with bile acid sequestrants should be monitored for vitamin K deficiency.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Cholestyramine is considered compatible with breast-feeding. It is not systemically absorbed and is not expected to be present in human milk. It should be noted, however, that prolonged use of bile acid sequestrants may result in decreased absorption of fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, and K) in the patient and could potentially reduce vitamin concentrations in milk.

Interactions
Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved. (Minor) As with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), the absorption of ibuprofen can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered. Staggering the administration times may minimize this interaction.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins. If used concurrently, administration of the two agents should be staggered for the longest time interval possible.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in amiodarone efficacy during concomitant use of cholestyramine. Cholestyramine reduces amiodarone overall exposure by decreasing enterohepatic circulation of amiodarone.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Bempedoic Acid; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) The oral absorption of ezetimibe may be decreased by the concomitant administration of the bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine. The incremental LDL-cholesterol reduction expected to occur by adding ezetimibe to bile acid sequestrant therapy may be reduced by this interaction. To limit a potential interaction, ezetimibe should be administered at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. In a study of 40 hypercholesterolemic adult subjects, concomitant cholestyramine (4 grams PO twice daily) administration decreased the mean AUC values of total ezetimibe (ezetimibe plus ezetimibe-glucuronide) and ezetimibe by approximately 55% and 80%, respectively.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Colestipol has been shown to reduce tetracycline absorption by roughly 50%. It is likely this is enough to cause a clinically significant effect. Although no data are available for other tetracyclines, or for cholestyramine, it should be assumed that any tetracycline antibiotic may be affected similarly by either cholestyramine or colestipol. Staggering oral doses of each agent is recommended to minimize this pharmacokinetic interaction. To minimize drug interactions, administer tetracyclines at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine. Since doxycycline undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, it may be even more susceptible to this drug interaction than the other tetracyclines. (Moderate) Administer metronidazole at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after administration of cholestyramine. The oral bioavailability of metronidazole was reduced by 21% when given with cholestyramine.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Colestipol has been shown to reduce tetracycline absorption by roughly 50%. It is likely this is enough to cause a clinically significant effect. Although no data are available for other tetracyclines, or for cholestyramine, it should be assumed that any tetracycline antibiotic may be affected similarly by either cholestyramine or colestipol. Staggering oral doses of each agent is recommended to minimize this pharmacokinetic interaction. To minimize drug interactions, administer tetracyclines at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine. Since doxycycline undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, it may be even more susceptible to this drug interaction than the other tetracyclines. (Moderate) Administer metronidazole at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after administration of cholestyramine. The oral bioavailability of metronidazole was reduced by 21% when given with cholestyramine.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Minor) Pretreatment for four days with cholestyramine before IV meloxicam significantly increased the clearance of meloxicam by 50%. This interaction may occur via reduction of enterohepatic recycling of meloxicam in the gastrointestinal tract; the impact on oral dosing of meloxicam or overall clinical relevance is not established.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Calcifediol: (Moderate) Separate administration of calcifediol by 1 hour before or 4 hours after a cholestyramine dose to limit effects on oral absorption. Dose adjustment of calcifediol may be necessary during coadministration with cholestyramine. Additionally, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, intact PTH, and calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with cholestyramine. Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat-soluble vitamins like calcifediol.
Calcitriol: (Moderate) Separate administration of calcitriol by 1 hour before or 4 hours after a cholestyramine dose to limit effects on oral absorption. Dose adjustment of calcitriol may be necessary during coadministration with cholestyramine. Additionally, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, intact PTH, and calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with cholestyramine. Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat-soluble vitamins like calcitriol.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins. If used concurrently, administration of the two agents should be staggered for the longest time interval possible.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Entacapone should be given cautiously with drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation, or intestinal beta-glucuronidation such as cholestyramine. Decreased biliary excretion of entacapone may occur if these agents are given concurrently.
Cephalexin: (Minor) Caution may be warranted with coadministration of cephalexin and cholestyramine as cephalexin absorption may be decreased. In a study comparing patients receiving cephalexin alone with cephalexin plus cholestyramine, cephalexin mean and peak plasma concentrations were significantly reduced in patients with malabsorption syndromes.
Chenodiol: (Moderate) Bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine, may interfere with the action of chenodiol by reducing its absorption. To minimize drug interactions, administer chenodiol at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after cholestyramine.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) As with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), the absorption of ibuprofen can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered. Staggering the administration times may minimize this interaction.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Cholic Acid: (Moderate) Do not administer cholic acid simultaneously with bile acid binding resins such as cholestyramine, colestipol, or colesevelam because a reduction in cholic acid absorption will occur. Administer cholic acid at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours (or the maximal interval possible) after a bile acid binding resin.
Cod Liver Oil: (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins. If used concurrently, administration of the two agents should be staggered for the longest time interval possible.
Cranberry, Vaccinium macrocarpon Ait.: (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins. If used concurrently, administration of the two agents should be staggered for the longest time interval possible.
Deferasirox: (Major) The concomitant administration of deferasirox and cholestyramine may result in decreased systemic exposure to deferasirox. In healthy volunteers, the administration of cholesytramine after a single dose of deferasirox resulted in a 45% decrease in deferasirox exposure (AUC). Avoid the concomitant use of cholestyramine with deferasirox if possible. If cholestyramine and deferasirox coadministration is necessary, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox. Monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification.
Demeclocycline: (Major) Colestipol has been shown to reduce tetracycline absorption by roughly 50%. It is likely this is enough to cause a clinically significant effect. Although no data are available for other tetracyclines, or for cholestyramine, it should be assumed that any tetracycline antibiotic may be affected similarly by either cholestyramine or colestipol. Staggering oral doses of each agent is recommended to minimize this pharmacokinetic interaction. To minimize drug interactions, administer tetracyclines at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine. Since doxycycline undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, it may be even more susceptible to this drug interaction than the other tetracyclines.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of cholestyramine and oral iron supplements may reduce the oral absorption of iron. To avoid any oral absorption interference, administration of other drugs is recommended 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine administration.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in dexamethasone efficacy during concurrent use of dexamethasone and cholestyramine. Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral digoxin and cholestyramine if concomitant use is necessary: give digoxin at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after cholestyramine. A digoxin dosage increase of approximately 20% to 40% may also be required based on response. Simultaneous administration may reduce digoxin absorption and efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Minor) As with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), the absorption of ibuprofen can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered. Staggering the administration times may minimize this interaction.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) The absorption of NSAIDs can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Administer doxercalciferol at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after taking cholestyramine. Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat or fat soluble vitamins including vitamin D analogs, such as oral doxercalciferol.
Doxycycline: (Major) Colestipol has been shown to reduce tetracycline absorption by roughly 50%. It is likely this is enough to cause a clinically significant effect. Although no data are available for other tetracyclines, or for cholestyramine, it should be assumed that any tetracycline antibiotic may be affected similarly by either cholestyramine or colestipol. Staggering oral doses of each agent is recommended to minimize this pharmacokinetic interaction. To minimize drug interactions, administer tetracyclines at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine. Since doxycycline undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, it may be even more susceptible to this drug interaction than the other tetracyclines.
Elafibranor: (Moderate) Separate the administration of elafibranor and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous coadministration may reduce elafibranor absorption and reduce its efficacy.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Entacapone should be given cautiously with drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation, or intestinal beta-glucuronidation such as cholestyramine. Decreased biliary excretion of entacapone may occur if these agents are given concurrently.
Ezetimibe: (Moderate) The oral absorption of ezetimibe may be decreased by the concomitant administration of the bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine. The incremental LDL-cholesterol reduction expected to occur by adding ezetimibe to bile acid sequestrant therapy may be reduced by this interaction. To limit a potential interaction, ezetimibe should be administered at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. In a study of 40 hypercholesterolemic adult subjects, concomitant cholestyramine (4 grams PO twice daily) administration decreased the mean AUC values of total ezetimibe (ezetimibe plus ezetimibe-glucuronide) and ezetimibe by approximately 55% and 80%, respectively.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) The oral absorption of ezetimibe may be decreased by the concomitant administration of the bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine. The incremental LDL-cholesterol reduction expected to occur by adding ezetimibe to bile acid sequestrant therapy may be reduced by this interaction. To limit a potential interaction, ezetimibe should be administered at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. In a study of 40 hypercholesterolemic adult subjects, concomitant cholestyramine (4 grams PO twice daily) administration decreased the mean AUC values of total ezetimibe (ezetimibe plus ezetimibe-glucuronide) and ezetimibe by approximately 55% and 80%, respectively.
Fat soluble vitamins: (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins. If used concurrently, administration of the two agents should be staggered for the longest time interval possible.
Fenofibrate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of fenofibric acid and bile acid sequestrants if concomitant use is necessary: administer fenofibric acid at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant. Simultaneous administration may decrease fenofibric acid absorption and reduce fenofibric acid efficacy.
Fenofibric Acid: (Moderate) Separate the administration of fenofibric acid and bile acid sequestrants if concomitant use is necessary: administer fenofibric acid at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant. Simultaneous administration may decrease fenofibric acid absorption and reduce fenofibric acid efficacy.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of cholestyramine and oral iron supplements may reduce the oral absorption of iron. To avoid any oral absorption interference, administration of other drugs is recommended 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine administration.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins. If used concurrently, administration of the two agents should be staggered for the longest time interval possible.
Fluvastatin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of cholestyramine with fluvastatin (immediate-release capsules) significantly reduces fluvastatin serum concentrations (reduces AUC by 89%). Cholestyramine produces a complex with fluvastatin that is unavailable for absorption. However, administration of fluvastatin 4 hours after cholestyramine resulted in a clinically significant additive effect compared with that achieved with either component drug. If a patient is to receive both medications, administration times should be staggered by at least 4 hours to avoid impairing fluvastatin bioavailability.
Folic Acid, Vitamin B9: (Moderate) Chronic administration of cholestyramine may interfere with folic acid, vitamin B9 oral absorption. Patients receiving both drugs should take folic acid 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after a dose of cholestyramine.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Furosemide: (Moderate) In a study of 6 healthy volunteers, concurrent administration of cholestyramine with oral furosemide reduced the bioavailability of furosemide by 95% and reduced the diuretic response by 77%. Concomitant administration with colestipol reduced furosemide bioavailability by 80% and the diuretic response by 58%. The manufacturer of colestipol recommends administering other drugs at least 1 hour before or at least 4-6 hours after the administration of colestipol and that the interval between the administration of colestipol and other drugs should be as long as possible.
Gemfibrozil: (Moderate) Separate the administration of gemfibrozil and bile acid sequestrants by 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous administration interferes with gemfibrozil absorption and has been observed to reduce gemfibrozil overall exposure by 30% which may reduce gemfibrozil efficacy.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to reduce the bioavailability of glipizide, but appears to have no effect on tolbutamide absorption. The effect of cholestyramine on the bioavailability of other oral sulfonylureas is unknown.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to reduce the bioavailability of glipizide, but appears to have no effect on tolbutamide absorption. The effect of cholestyramine on the bioavailability of other oral sulfonylureas is unknown.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Minor) As with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), the absorption of ibuprofen can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered. Staggering the administration times may minimize this interaction.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to bind to hydrocortisone. To minimize drug interactions, the manufacturer recommends to administer other drugs at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine.
Ibuprofen: (Minor) As with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), the absorption of ibuprofen can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered. Staggering the administration times may minimize this interaction.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Minor) As with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), the absorption of ibuprofen can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered. Staggering the administration times may minimize this interaction.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) As with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), the absorption of ibuprofen can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered. Staggering the administration times may minimize this interaction.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the serum concentration of imipramine by 23% in six depressed patients; plasma concentrations of the desipramine metabolite were marginally decreased. Cholestyramine should be used with caution in patients stabilized on imipramine. It is not known if staggering the times of administration will minimize an interaction.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of cholestyramine and oral iron supplements may reduce the oral absorption of iron. To avoid any oral absorption interference, administration of other drugs is recommended 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine administration.
Iron: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of cholestyramine and oral iron supplements may reduce the oral absorption of iron. To avoid any oral absorption interference, administration of other drugs is recommended 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine administration.
Leflunomide: (Major) Cholestyramine can bind with leflunomide and enhance its clearance from the systemic circulation via intestinal trapping. Because the active metabolite of leflunomide, M1, has a prolonged half-life, staggering the administration times of each agent will not prevent this drug interaction. After 24 hours of cholestyramine administration, the levels of M1, the active metabolite of leflunomide, are reduced by approximately 40%. This effective means of 'gastrointestinal dialysis' has actually been used therapeutically in patients with leflunomide toxicity. Cholestyramine is the key agent in the drug elimination procedure for leflunomide.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of cholestyramine and oral iron supplements may reduce the oral absorption of iron. To avoid any oral absorption interference, administration of other drugs is recommended 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine administration.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of cholestyramine and oral iron supplements may reduce the oral absorption of iron. To avoid any oral absorption interference, administration of other drugs is recommended 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine administration.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Administer oral levothyroxine or other oral thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before a dose of cholestyramine. Cholestyramine and other bile acid sequestrants have been shown to decrease the oral absorption of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid function periodically to ensure proper clinical management.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Administer oral levothyroxine or other oral thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before a dose of cholestyramine. Cholestyramine and other bile acid sequestrants have been shown to decrease the oral absorption of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid function periodically to ensure proper clinical management.
Linerixibat: (Moderate) Separate the administration of linerixibat and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous coadministration may cause bile acid resins to bind linerixibat in the gut and reduce linerixibat efficacy.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Administer oral levothyroxine or other oral thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before a dose of cholestyramine. Cholestyramine and other bile acid sequestrants have been shown to decrease the oral absorption of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid function periodically to ensure proper clinical management.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Separate administration of lomitapide and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours. Although this interaction has not been studied, bile acid sequestrants can interfere with the absorption of oral medications.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Cholestyramine may inhibit the effect of loperamide, which may be the result of binding in the GI tract. A causal relationship has not been established; however, loperamide should be administered at least 2 hours apart from cholestyramine until the significance of this interaction is known.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Cholestyramine may inhibit the effect of loperamide, which may be the result of binding in the GI tract. A causal relationship has not been established; however, loperamide should be administered at least 2 hours apart from cholestyramine until the significance of this interaction is known.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Maralixibat: (Moderate) Take maralixibat at least 4 hours before or 4 hours after taking a bile acid sequestrant. Bile acid sequestrants may bind maralixibat in the gut, which may reduce its efficacy.
Meloxicam: (Minor) Pretreatment for four days with cholestyramine before IV meloxicam significantly increased the clearance of meloxicam by 50%. This interaction may occur via reduction of enterohepatic recycling of meloxicam in the gastrointestinal tract; the impact on oral dosing of meloxicam or overall clinical relevance is not established.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Minor) Pretreatment for four days with cholestyramine before IV meloxicam significantly increased the clearance of meloxicam by 50%. This interaction may occur via reduction of enterohepatic recycling of meloxicam in the gastrointestinal tract; the impact on oral dosing of meloxicam or overall clinical relevance is not established.
Methotrexate: (Major) The bile-acid sequestrant cholestyramine is well-known to cause drug interactions by binding and decreasing the oral administration of many drugs. Cholestyramine enhances the clearance of methotrexate from the systemic circulation. This interaction has been used therapeutically in patients with methotrexate toxicity. To minimize drug interactions, administer other drugs at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) The absorption of oral corticosteroids, such as methylprednisolone, may be reduced during concurrent administration with cholestyramine. In a study of 10 healthy subjects, reductions in plasma cortisol concentrations and delays in peak concentrations were observed when cholestyramine 4 g was given prior to a single dose of another corticosteroid. When given with cholestyramine, the AUC of the corticosteroid decreased by approximately one-third and time to peak plasma cortisol concentrations was reached 50 +/- 22 minutes later than controls. It is recommended that other drugs be taken at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine (or as great an interval as possible) to avoid absorption interference.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Administer metronidazole at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after administration of cholestyramine. The oral bioavailability of metronidazole was reduced by 21% when given with cholestyramine.
Minocycline: (Major) Colestipol has been shown to reduce tetracycline absorption by roughly 50%. It is likely this is enough to cause a clinically significant effect. Although no data are available for other tetracyclines, or for cholestyramine, it should be assumed that any tetracycline antibiotic may be affected similarly by either cholestyramine or colestipol. Staggering oral doses of each agent is recommended to minimize this pharmacokinetic interaction. To minimize drug interactions, administer tetracyclines at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine. Since doxycycline undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, it may be even more susceptible to this drug interaction than the other tetracyclines.
Mycophenolate: (Major) Avoid administration of mycophenolate mofetil with cholestyramine. Coadministration of mycophenolate mofetil with cholestyramine decreases the bioavailability of mycophenolate mofetil. Cholestyramine decreases the AUC of mycophenolate by about 40%.
Naproxen: (Minor) The absorption of NSAIDs can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Minor) The absorption of NSAIDs can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) The absorption of NSAIDs can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) In vitro studies have shown that bile acid sequestrants bind niacin. Roughly 98% of niacin was bound to colestipol, and 10 to 30% of niacin was bound to cholestyramine. These results suggest that at least 4 to 6 hours should elapse between the ingestion of bile-acid-binding resins and the administration of niacin.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of cholestyramine and oral iron supplements may reduce the oral absorption of iron. To avoid any oral absorption interference, administration of other drugs is recommended 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine administration.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of cholestyramine and oral iron supplements may reduce the oral absorption of iron. To avoid any oral absorption interference, administration of other drugs is recommended 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine administration.
Obeticholic Acid: (Moderate) Bile acid binding resins such as cholestyramine absorb and reduce bile acid absorption and may reduce the absorption, systemic exposure, and efficacy of obeticholic acid. If used together, take obeticholic acid at least 4 hours before or 4 hours after taking the bile acid resin, or at as great an interval as possible.
Odevixibat: (Moderate) Take odevixibat at least 4 hours before or 4 hours after taking a bile acid sequestrant. Bile acid sequestrants may bind odevixibat in the gut, which may reduce its efficacy.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Omadacycline: (Major) Colestipol has been shown to reduce tetracycline absorption by roughly 50%. It is likely this is enough to cause a clinically significant effect. Although no data are available for other tetracyclines, or for cholestyramine, it should be assumed that any tetracycline antibiotic may be affected similarly by either cholestyramine or colestipol. Staggering oral doses of each agent is recommended to minimize this pharmacokinetic interaction. To minimize drug interactions, administer tetracyclines at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine. Since doxycycline undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, it may be even more susceptible to this drug interaction than the other tetracyclines.
Paricalcitol: (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat soluble vitamins including vitamin D analogs, such as oral paricalcitol. If a patient must receive treatment with both of these drugs, separate administration of paricalcitol by 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after a cholestyramine dose to help limit absorption interactions.
Phytonadione, Vitamin K1: (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins. If used concurrently, administration of the two agents should be staggered for the longest time interval possible.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to enhance the oral clearance and decrease the half-life of piroxicam. The clinical implications of this pharmacokinetic interaction are uncertain. To minimize this interaction, it is prudent to administer piroxicam at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after cholestyramine.
Polysaccharide-Iron Complex: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of cholestyramine and oral iron supplements may reduce the oral absorption of iron. To avoid any oral absorption interference, administration of other drugs is recommended 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine administration.
Pravastatin: (Moderate) Administer pravastatin 1 hour before or 4 hours after a dose of cholestyramine if both agents are used together. Bile acid-sequestering agents, such as cholestyramine, have been shown to significantly reduce serum concentrations of pravastatin. Coadministration with cholestyramine decreases the AUC of pravastatin by about 40-50%.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids, such as prednisone.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Absorption of propranolol may be reduced by concurrent administration with colestipol or cholestyramine. To minimize drug interactions, administer other drugs at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Raloxifene: (Moderate) A single dose of cholestyramine causes a 60% reduction in the absorption and enterohepatic cycling of raloxifene. The coadministration of cholestyramine and raloxifene is not recommended.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) The oral absorption of ezetimibe may be decreased by the concomitant administration of the bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine. The incremental LDL-cholesterol reduction expected to occur by adding ezetimibe to bile acid sequestrant therapy may be reduced by this interaction. To limit a potential interaction, ezetimibe should be administered at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. In a study of 40 hypercholesterolemic adult subjects, concomitant cholestyramine (4 grams PO twice daily) administration decreased the mean AUC values of total ezetimibe (ezetimibe plus ezetimibe-glucuronide) and ezetimibe by approximately 55% and 80%, respectively.
Sarecycline: (Major) Colestipol has been shown to reduce tetracycline absorption by roughly 50%. It is likely this is enough to cause a clinically significant effect. Although no data are available for other tetracyclines, or for cholestyramine, it should be assumed that any tetracycline antibiotic may be affected similarly by either cholestyramine or colestipol. Staggering oral doses of each agent is recommended to minimize this pharmacokinetic interaction. To minimize drug interactions, administer tetracyclines at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine. Since doxycycline undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, it may be even more susceptible to this drug interaction than the other tetracyclines.
Seladelpar: (Moderate) Separate the administration of seladelpar and bile acid sequestrants by at least 4 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous coadministration may reduce seladelpar absorption and reduce its efficacy.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of cholestyramine and oral iron supplements may reduce the oral absorption of iron. To avoid any oral absorption interference, administration of other drugs is recommended 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine administration.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cholestyramine and taurursodiol, and consider other cholesterol lowering medications. Coadministration may decrease the absorption of taurursodiol.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Use caution if spironolactone is administered concurrently with cholestyramine. Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported in patients given spironolactone concurrently with cholestyramine.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%. (Moderate) Use caution if spironolactone is administered concurrently with cholestyramine. Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported in patients given spironolactone concurrently with cholestyramine.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Major) In vitro studies have shown that bile acid sequestrants bind niacin. The results suggest that at least 4 to 6 hours should elapse between the ingestion of bile-acid-binding resins and the administration of niacin.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Minor) The absorption of NSAIDs can be delayed if cholestyramine is concomitantly administered.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Cholestyramine can bind with teriflunomide and enhance its clearance from the systemic circulation via intestinal trapping. Because teriflunomide has a prolonged half-life, staggering the administration times of each agent will not prevent this drug interaction. After 11 days of cholestyramine administration, teriflunomide concentrations are reduced by approximately 98%. Cholestyramine is used to facilitate teriflunomide elmination from the body when clinically necessary.
Tetracycline: (Major) Colestipol has been shown to reduce tetracycline absorption by roughly 50%. It is likely this is enough to cause a clinically significant effect. Although no data are available for other tetracyclines, or for cholestyramine, it should be assumed that any tetracycline antibiotic may be affected similarly by either cholestyramine or colestipol. Staggering oral doses of each agent is recommended to minimize this pharmacokinetic interaction. To minimize drug interactions, administer tetracyclines at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine. Since doxycycline undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, it may be even more susceptible to this drug interaction than the other tetracyclines.
Tetracyclines: (Major) Colestipol has been shown to reduce tetracycline absorption by roughly 50%. It is likely this is enough to cause a clinically significant effect. Although no data are available for other tetracyclines, or for cholestyramine, it should be assumed that any tetracycline antibiotic may be affected similarly by either cholestyramine or colestipol. Staggering oral doses of each agent is recommended to minimize this pharmacokinetic interaction. To minimize drug interactions, administer tetracyclines at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine. Since doxycycline undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, it may be even more susceptible to this drug interaction than the other tetracyclines.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Administer oral levothyroxine or other oral thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before a dose of cholestyramine. Cholestyramine and other bile acid sequestrants have been shown to decrease the oral absorption of thyroid hormones. Monitor thyroid function periodically to ensure proper clinical management.
Tinidazole: (Moderate) Administer tinidazole at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine. Separate dosing of cholestyramine and tinidazole to minimize any potential effect on the bioavailability of tinidazole. Cholestyramine was shown to decrease the bioavailability of another nitroimidazole by 21%.
Torsemide: (Minor) Cholestyramine inhibits the oral bioavailability of torsemide. Simultaneous use of torsemide and cholestyramine is not recommended. Stagger the administration times of cholestyramine and oral torsemide by several hours to avoid the possibility of this interaction.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Ursodeoxycholic Acid, Ursodiol: (Moderate) Cholestyramine may interfere with the action of ursodeoxycholic acid, ursodiol by reducing its absorption. To minimize drug interactions, administer ursodiol at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the bile acid sequestering agents.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Major) One small study in 6 healthy volunteers suggested that cholestyramine can impair the oral bioavailability of valproic acid, divalproex sodium. Concurrent administration reduced valproic acid plasma concentrations by a mean of 14%, however, intersubject variability was large. Separating the dosing of valproic acid, divalproex sodium and cholestyramine by 3 hours may lessen the interaction.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Vancomycin: (Major) The concurrent use of anion-exchange resins and oral vancomycin is contraindicated by clinical practice guidelines. Per FDA-approved labeling, administer other drugs at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after cholestyramine (or as great an interval as possible). Cholestyramine can bind other drugs, such as oral vancomycin, when given concurrently.
Vitamin A: (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins. If used concurrently, administration of the two agents should be staggered for the longest time interval possible.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Chronic administration of cholestyramine may interfere with folic acid, vitamin B9 oral absorption. Patients receiving both drugs should take folic acid 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after a dose of cholestyramine. (Moderate) In vitro studies have shown that bile acid sequestrants bind niacin. Roughly 98% of niacin was bound to colestipol, and 10 to 30% of niacin was bound to cholestyramine. These results suggest that at least 4 to 6 hours should elapse between the ingestion of bile-acid-binding resins and the administration of niacin.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins. If used concurrently, administration of the two agents should be staggered for the longest time interval possible.
Vitamin E: (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins. If used concurrently, administration of the two agents should be staggered for the longest time interval possible.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Separate the administration of warfarin and cholestyramine if concomitant use is necessary: administer warfarin at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after cholestyramine. Simultaneous administration may decrease warfarin absorption and reduce efficacy.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The most common side effect of cholestyramine use is constipation. It usually is mild and transient but can produce fecal impaction. Cholestyramine can also worsen preexisting constipation and aggravate hemmorroids. Every effort should be made to avert possible constipation; the patient should be instructed to drink plenty of water. Rare reports of GI obstruction, including two deaths, have been reported in pediatric patients. Other GI effects include cholelithiasis, pancreatitis, GI bleeding, peptic ulcer, steatorrhea, anorexia, malabsorption syndrome, distention, bloating, flatulence, nausea/vomiting, and diarrhea.Chronic use of cholestyramine resin can cause bleeding due to hypoprothrombinemia secondary to vitamin K deficiency.Because cholestyramine releases chloride ions, hyperchloremic acidosis could occur, particularly in smaller patients or children.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, cholelithiasis, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, dysphagia, eructation, flatulence, GI bleeding, GI obstruction, hiccups, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer, steatorrhea, stool discoloration, vomiting, weight gain, weight loss
    General Information
    The most common side effect of cholestyramine use is constipation. It usually is mild and transient but can produce fecal impaction. Cholestyramine can also worsen preexisting constipation and aggravate hemorrhoids. Every effort should be made to avert possible constipation; the patient should be instructed to drink plenty of water. If constipation does occur, most cases can be treated with conventional therapy, but dose decrease or discontinuation may be required. In pediatric patients there have been rare reports of GI obstruction, including two deaths. Other GI effects include cholelithiasis, pancreatitis, GI bleeding, peptic ulcer, steatorrhea, anorexia, malabsorption syndrome, distention, bloating, flatulence, nausea, vomiting, stool discoloration (black stool), hemorrhoidal bleeding, bleeding from duodenal ulcer, dysphagia, hiccups, ulcer attack, dysgeusia (sour taste), rectal pain, diverticulitis, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, eructation, weight loss, weight gain, irritation of the tongue, perianal irritation, and diarrhea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholelithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      GI obstruction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      peptic ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      eructation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hiccups
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      steatorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      stool discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hyperchloremic acidosis
    General Information
    Because cholestyramine releases chloride ions, hyperchloremic acidosis could occur, particularly in smaller patients or children.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperchloremic acidosis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dyspnea, urticaria, wheezing
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with cholestyramine use and include urticaria, asthma, wheezing, and dyspnea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    back pain, musculoskeletal pain, rash (unspecified), skin irritation
    General Information
    Adverse events reported in patients taking cholestyramine include rash (unspecified), skin irritation, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, and arthritis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      skin irritation
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, neuropathic pain, paresthesias, syncope, tinnitus, vertigo
    General Information
    Neurologic reactions reported in patients taking cholestyramine include headache, anxiety, vertigo, dizziness, fatigue, tinnitus, syncope, drowsiness, femoral neuropathic pain, and paresthesias.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      neuropathic pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    diuresis, dysuria, hematuria
    General Information
    Renal adverse reactions reported in patients taking cholestyramine include hematuria, dysuria, burnt odor to urine, and diuresis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diuresis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dental caries, tooth discoloration
    General Information
    Dental bleeding, dental caries, erosion of tooth enamel, and tooth discoloration have been reported in patients taking cholestyramine. Instruct individuals to avoid sipping or holding the suspension in the mouth for prolonged periods to prevent changes to the surface of the teeth, such as discoloration, enamel erosion, or decay.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dental caries
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tooth discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    colic, elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported in patients taking cholestyramine. Calcified material has been observed, occasionally, in the biliary tree including calcification of gallbladder; this may be due to liver disease and not be drug-related. Biliary colic was reported in one patient on each of 3 occasions when he took cholestyramine. One patient was diagnosed as having acute abdominal symptom complex and was found to have a "pasty mass" in the transverse colon on x-ray.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      colic
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoprothrombinemia, night blindness, vitamin A deficiency, vitamin D deficiency, vitamin K deficiency
    General Information
    Because cholestyramine binds bile acids, cholestyramine may interfere with normal fat digestion and absorption and thus may prevent absorption of fat-soluble vitamins such as A, D, E and K. When cholestyramine is given for long periods of time, concomitant supplementation with water-miscible (or parenteral) forms of fat-soluble vitamins should be considered to reduce the risk for vitamin A deficiency, vitamin D deficiency, vitamin K deficiency or vitamin E deficiency. Rare cases of bleeding tendencies due to hypoprothrombinemia (Vitamin K deficiency) as well as Vitamin A (one case of night blindness reported) and vitamin D deficiencies have been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoprothrombinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vitamin K deficiency
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vitamin D deficiency
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vitamin A deficiency
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      night blindness
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    edema, libido increase, uveitis
    General Information
    In patients taking cholestyramine, uveitis, libido increase, swollen glands, and edema have been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      uveitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    folate deficiency
    General Information
    Bile acid sequestrants impair the absorption and reduce the bioavailability of folate and may lead to folate deficiency. Monitor patients or folate deficiency and supplement when indicated.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      folate deficiency
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Cholestyramine is a polymeric resin, administered orally to bind bile acids. Originally, cholestyramine was used to treat pruritis secondary to cholestasis, but its main use today is to treat hypercholesterolemia with concomitant hypertriglyceridemia. Cholestyramine also has been used to treat Clostridium difficile enterocolitis, although traditional antibiotics are more effective. Since cholestyramine and the related agent colestipol are not absorbed orally, they are the drugs of choice for treating hyperlipidemia in pregnant women. Cholestyramine was approved by the FDA in 1966. A request for OTC status has been considered and denied twice by the FDA: once in October 1995 and again in May 1997.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Cholestyramine resin releases chloride and combines with bile acids in the intestine to form insoluble, nonabsorbable complexes that are excreted in the feces along with unchanged resin. Bile acids undergo enterohepatic circulation. Since cholesterol is the precursor of bile acids, interference with reuptake of bile acids actually stimulates cholesterol synthesis via an increase in the activity of HMG-CoA reductase. Plasma cholesterol levels do not rise, however, since the newly formed cholesterol is shunted into the bile acid-synthesis pathway. In addition, the hepatocyte responds to this change in plasma cholesterol by intensifying uptake of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, thereby decreasing plasma cholesterol. Plasma cholesterol and LDL concentrations fall in patients with primary type II hyperlipoproteinemia. Plasma cholesterol concentrations decrease by 20—50% when these patients receive 12—32 g of cholestyramine resin daily.

Pharmacokinetics
  Text
  Since cholestyramine is not absorbed orally, serum concentrations and half-life parameters do not apply. Reduction of plasma cholesterol usually is seen within the first month of therapy and returns to pretreatment levels within 1 month of discontinuation. Relief of pruritus associated with biliary stasis usually takes 1—3 weeks.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Administer as a suspension. Do not administer as a dry powder. Mix in the proper fluid as indicated.
Mix the required dosage in 60 to 180 mL (2 to 6 ounces) of water or other non-carbonated beverage of choice and stir until completely mixed. Stir to a uniform consistency, then drink.
Alternatively, cholestyramine may also be mixed with highly fluid soups or pulpy fruits with a high moisture content, such as applesauce or crushed pineapple.
Avoid sipping or holding the suspension in the mouth for prolonged periods to prevent changes to the surface of the teeth, such as discoloration, enamel erosion, or decay.
To minimize drug interactions, administer other medications at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after each cholestyramine dose. Review drug interactions for specific recommendations.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    24 g/day PO for hypercholesterolemia; 16 g/day PO for pruritus.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    24 g/day PO for hypercholesterolemia; 16 g/day PO for pruritus.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    8 g/day PO for hypercholesterolemia.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    8 g/day PO for hypercholesterolemia.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed; the drug is not systemically absorbed.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed; the drug is not systemically absorbed.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
No dosage adjustment is needed; the drug is not systemically absorbed.
