=== Chlorzoxazone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 123)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Chlorzoxazone is an oral, centrally acting, skeletal muscle-relaxing agent with sedative properties.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 3,000 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, drowsiness, headache, malaise, torticollis, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, ecchymosis, petechiae, rash, urticaria, gi bleeding

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Chlorzoxazone is contraindicated in any patient with a known or suspected hypersensitivity to the drug or any of the product ingredients. Use cautiously in any patient with a history of allergies to drugs.

Brand Names
  - Lorzone
  - Parafon Forte DSC
  - Relax-DS
  - Remular S

Dosage Forms
  - Chlorzoxazone 250mg Oral tablet
  - Chlorzoxazone 375mg Oral tablet
  - Chlorzoxazone 500mg Oral tablet
  - Chlorzoxazone 750mg Oral tablet
  - Lorzone 375mg Tablet
  - Lorzone 750mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Initially, 250 to 500 mg PO given 3 to 4 times per day. The usual initial dose for painful musculoskeletal conditions is 500 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily. Geriatric or debilitated patients may need a lower initial dose. If adequate response is not obtained at initial dose, may increase. Max: 750 mg PO 3 or 4 times daily. As improvement occurs, reduce to lowest effective dose.
    Heading
    For adjunctive therapy to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for musculoskeletal pain associated with acute musculoskeletal conditions

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Chlorzoxazone is contraindicated in any patient with a known or suspected hypersensitivity to the drug or any of the product ingredients. Use cautiously in any patient with a history of allergies to drugs. If a sensitivity reaction, such as hives, urticaria, or erythema of the skin occurs, the drug should be discontinued.
 
Chlorzoxazone should be used with caution in patients with CNS depression, or using concomitant drugs that may cause CNS depression because of possible exacerbation of the condition. Patients suffering from alcoholism or currently under ethanol intoxication should not use chlorzoxazone. Concomitant use of alcohol with chlorzoxazone will exacerbate the CNS depression and should be avoided. Additionally, alcohol use with chlorzoxazone may increase the possibility of hepatotoxicity, although specific data are not available. Patients should be warned that the CNS depressant effects of chlorzoxazone may impair driving or operating machinery, or the ability to perform other hazardous activities.
 
Chlorzoxazone should be used cautiously, if at all, in patients with a previous history of liver disease. Chlorzoxazone should not be used in patients with active hepatic disease or hepatitis. Serious (including fatal) hepatocellular toxicity has been rarely reported in patients receiving chlorzoxazone. Factors predisposing patients to hepatotoxicity are unknown. The clinician should strongly consider monitoring liver function tests (LFTs) during chlorzoxazone treatment. Patients should promptly report any signs of hepatic disease to their prescriber, including fever, rash, anorexia, nausea/vomiting, fatigue, right upper quadrant pain, dark urine or jaundice. Note that rarely a patient may observe orange or purple-red discoloration of the urine due to excretion of the phenolic metabolite. It is important that the health care professional distinguish this benign discoloration from that of darkened urine which may indicate hepatotoxicity. If signs and symptoms of liver toxicity occur, chlorzoxazone should be discontinued immediately. Additionally, if elevated hepatic enzymes (LFTs) (e.g., AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin) are reported, chlorzoxazone should be immediately discontinued.
 
The 6-hydroxychlorzoxazone metabolite of chlorzoxazone is rapidly excreted in the urine; therefore, chlorzoxazone should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment (including renal failure) because renal dysfunction may alter drug excretion, possibly causing toxicity. The manufacturer of chlorzoxazone states that there is no evidence that the drug will lead to renal impairment.
 
Use chlorzoxazone with extreme caution in the elderly due to CNS depression and potentially irreversible hepatotoxicity. Initially, start with lower dosages in the elderly. Chlorzoxazone is not associated with anticholinergic adverse effects.
 
Chlorzoxazone has not been evaluated for safe use during pregnancy, so its effects on the fetus are unknown (most closely corresponds to FDA pregnancy risk category C). No epidemiological studies evaluating teratogenicity in infants born to women who used chlorzoxazone during pregnancy have been reported. Chlorzoxazone should only be used when the benefits to the mother strongly outweigh any potential risks to the fetus.
 
It is not known if chlorzoxazone is distributed into breast milk. The molecular weight of the drug is low enough that excretion into breast milk is likely. Use cautiously in mothers who are breast-feeding.
 
Unlike neuromuscular blocking agents, chlorzoxazone does not depress neuronal conduction, neuromuscular transmission, or muscle excitability. Chlorzoxazone is ineffective in the treatment of skeletal muscle hyperactivity or spasticity secondary to chronic neurological disease, such as cerebral palsy or other dyskinesias.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or doing any activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of chlorzoxazone are known. Ethanol ingestion or concomitant use of other CNS depressants may have an additive effect.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use chlorzoxazone cautiously, if at all, in individuals with hepatic impairment, including hepatic failure. Serious (including fatal) hepatotoxicity has rarely been reported in individuals receiving chlorzoxazone, but factors predisposing individuals to chlorzoxazone-induced hepatotoxicity are unknown as the hepatotoxicity appears to be idiosyncratic. Consider monitoring liver function tests (LFTs) in all chlorzoxazone recipients.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    In general, use chlorzoxazone with caution and close monitoring in the geriatric adult; it may be advisable to start with lower initial dosages. The Beers Criteria identifies skeletal muscle relaxants, such as chlorzoxazone, as potentially inappropriate for geriatric adults. This is due to poor tolerance, potential anticholinergic effects, sedation, increased fracture risk, and questionable effectiveness at dosages that older adults can tolerate.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Chlorzoxazone has not been systematically evaluated for safe use during pregnancy; therefore, its effects on the fetus are unknown. The reproductive effects of chlorzoxazone in animals have not been studied. Until further information becomes available, chlorzoxazone should be used during pregnancy only when the benefits to the pregnant person strongly outweigh any potential risks to the fetus. The molecular weight of the drug suggests that placental transfer is likely. In one surveillance study, 42 newborns were exposed to chlorzoxazone during the first trimester. One major birth defect was observed, and 2 defects were expected. Earlier data from the same study reported 264 first trimester exposures with 17 birth defects observed and 17 expected.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid use of chlorzoxazone during breast-feeding. It is not known if chlorzoxazone is distributed into breast milk. However, the molecular weight of the drug is low enough that excretion into breast milk is likely. Because no information is available on the use of chlorzoxazone during breast-feeding, an alternate treatment, like metaxalone, may be preferred (or an alternate form of feeding), especially while breast-feeding a newborn or premature infant. If chlorzoxazone administration cannot be avoided during breast-feeding, monitor the breastfed infant for commonly encountered adverse effects of chlorzoxazone, such as sedation.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Chlorzoxazone has not been systematically evaluated for safe use during pregnancy; therefore, its effects on the fetus are unknown. The reproductive effects of chlorzoxazone in animals have not been studied. Until further information becomes available, chlorzoxazone should be used during pregnancy only when the benefits to the pregnant person strongly outweigh any potential risks to the fetus. The molecular weight of the drug suggests that placental transfer is likely. In one surveillance study, 42 newborns were exposed to chlorzoxazone during the first trimester. One major birth defect was observed, and 2 defects were expected. Earlier data from the same study reported 264 first trimester exposures with 17 birth defects observed and 17 expected.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid use of chlorzoxazone during breast-feeding. It is not known if chlorzoxazone is distributed into breast milk. However, the molecular weight of the drug is low enough that excretion into breast milk is likely. Because no information is available on the use of chlorzoxazone during breast-feeding, an alternate treatment, like metaxalone, may be preferred (or an alternate form of feeding), especially while breast-feeding a newborn or premature infant. If chlorzoxazone administration cannot be avoided during breast-feeding, monitor the breastfed infant for commonly encountered adverse effects of chlorzoxazone, such as sedation.

Interactions
AbobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of alfentanil with chlorzoxazone may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of chlorzoxazone with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Skeletal muscle relaxants should be combined cautiously with cyclic antidepressants like maprotiline because they could cause additive CNS depressant effects. Depending on the specific agent (e.g., cyclobenzaprine, and orphenadrine), additive anticholinergic effects may also be seen. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Patients should be monitored for excessive adverse effects from either agent.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Concurrent use of chlorzoxazone and CNS depressants such as certain sedatives or hypnotics can cause additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with chlorzoxazone can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of benzhydrocodone with chlorzoxazone may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Botulinum Toxins: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine with other CNS depressants can lead to additive CNS depressive effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur; examples of other CNS depressants can include skeletal muscle relaxants, such as chlorzoxazone. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine with other CNS depressants can lead to additive CNS depressive effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur; examples of other CNS depressants can include skeletal muscle relaxants, such as chlorzoxazone. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with other CNS depressants, such as chlorzoxazone, can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Additive CNS depressant effects may be possible when sodium oxybate is used concurrently with skeletal muscle relaxants.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and chlorzoxazone. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and chlorzoxazone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of chlorzoxazone with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone. (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone. (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of chlorzoxazone with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants, such as clozapine. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone. (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone. (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone. (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
DaxibotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of chlorzoxazone with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as chlorzoxazone, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Due to the anesthetic effects of dexmedetomidine, concurrent use with other CNS depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, could result in additive sedative effects and possibly prolong recovery from anesthesia. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with chlorzoxazone can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Disulfiram: (Minor) Chlorzoxazone is a known substrate for the cytochrome P450 isozyme CYP2E1. Disulfiram inhibits CYP2E1 and has been shown to interfere with the clearance of chlorzoxazone.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of chlorzoxazone with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with dronabinol can result in additive CNS depression and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Utilize appropriate caution if these drugs are given together.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if skeletal muscle relaxants are used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of chlorzoxazone and CNS depressants such as certain sedatives or hypnotics can cause additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) One case report has noted a possible drug interaction between simvastatin and chlorzoxazone. Rhabdomyolysis, slight renal insufficiency and cholestatic hepatitis occurred in a 73-year old woman 14 days after chlorzoxazone was added to an established simvastatin regimen. Withdrawal of chlorzoxazone combined with volume substitution and forced diuresis lead to an almost complete resolution of symptoms. As chlorzoxazone is a substrate for the CYP2E1 isozyme, and simvastatin is a substrate for the CYP3A4 isozyme, it appears unlikely that the interaction was due to metabolic interference. The authors speculate that the interaction may have occurred via chlorzoxazone-induced cholestasis which then lead to increased blood concentrations of simvastatin resulting in rhabdomyolysis and renal impairment.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and chlorzoxazone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of fentanyl with chlorzoxazone may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and chlorzoxazone. Concomitant use of gabapentin with chlorzoxazone may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of chlorzoxazone with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression.
IncobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and chlorzoxazone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to a maximum of 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with chlorzoxazone as concurrent use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration as additive CNS effects are possible. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; chlorzoxazone is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of lemborexant with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial levorphanol dosage by 50% or more.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and chlorzoxazone. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or performing any other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the combination are known.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of chlorzoxazone and CNS depressants such as certain sedatives or hypnotics can cause additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of methadone with chlorzoxazone may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Skeletal muscle relaxants like chlorzoxazone may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other drugs with CNS depressant properties such as mirtazapine. Combination therapy may amplify sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary in some instances.
Molindone: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of morphine with chlorzoxazone may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. For extended-release morphine tablets (MS Contin and Morphabond), start with 15 mg every 12 hours. Morphine; naltrexone should be initiated at 1/3 to 1/2 the recommended starting dosage. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of nalbuphine with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of chlorzoxazone with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants, such as olanzapine. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants, such as olanzapine. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants, such as olanzapine. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
OnabotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxymorphone dosage by one-third to one-half.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of pentazocine with chlorzoxazone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of pentazocine with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of chlorzoxazone with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression. (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and chlorzoxazone. Concomitant use of pregabalin with chlorzoxazone may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Primidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of chlorzoxazone with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including quetiapine. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of remifentanil with chlorzoxazone may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
RimabotulinumtoxinB: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Rufinamide: (Moderate) In theory, plasma concentrations of chlorzoxazone or other CYP2E1 substrates may be increased due to the weak 2E1 inhibitory effects of rufinamide.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effects of other CNS depressants, including skeletal muscle relaxants.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) One case report has noted a possible drug interaction between simvastatin and chlorzoxazone. Rhabdomyolysis, slight renal insufficiency and cholestatic hepatitis occurred in a 73-year old woman 14 days after chlorzoxazone was added to an established simvastatin regimen. Withdrawal of chlorzoxazone combined with volume substitution and forced diuresis lead to an almost complete resolution of symptoms. As chlorzoxazone is a substrate for the CYP2E1 isozyme, and simvastatin is a substrate for the CYP3A4 isozyme, it appears unlikely that the interaction was due to metabolic interference. The authors speculate that the interaction may have occurred via chlorzoxazone-induced cholestasis which then lead to increased blood concentrations of simvastatin resulting in rhabdomyolysis and renal impairment.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Additive CNS depressant effects may be possible when sodium oxybate is used concurrently with skeletal muscle relaxants.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and chlorzoxazone. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of sufentanil with chlorzoxazone may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with other central nervous system depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs, such skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
traZODone: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, should be used cautiously in patients receiving trazodone because of additive CNS-depressant effects, including possible respiratory depression or hypotension. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Concomitant use of chlorzoxazone with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of chlorzoxazone with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Concurrent use of chlorzoxazone and CNS depressants such as certain sedatives or hypnotics can cause additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Ziprasidone has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. Additive CNS depressant effects are possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with any CNS depressant, including chlorzoxazone.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Concurrent use of chlorzoxazone and CNS depressants such as certain sedatives or hypnotics can cause additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  CNS depression is a predictable pharmacologic action of chlorzoxazone that leads to adverse effects such as drowsiness (sedation) and/or dizziness. Other neurological and psychological effects can emerge such as agitation, lightheadedness, malaise, headache, or paradoxical stimulation. Paresthesias and amnesia have been rarely reported. Chlorzoxazone-induced spasmodic torticollis occurred multiple times in a 46-year old woman receiving the drug for low back pain. The torticollis consisted of tonic deviation of the head to the right, tonic clenching of the teeth, and dysarthria. A temporal relationship was established, with the reaction developing 2 hours after multiple ingestions. Benztropine mesylate 1 mg IV resolved the symptoms. The mechanism appears to be inhibition of polysynaptic reflex pathways in the subcortical brain involved in maintaining muscle tone. Opisthotonus has also been reported.Allergic reactions to chlorzoxazone can develop. Dermatological responses include petechiae, pruritus, rash (unspecified) and ecchymosis. Anaphylactoid reactions and angioedema are rare. Stop chlorzoxazone administration if symptoms of a sensitivity reaction like urticaria, erythema, or pruritus occur.GI adverse effects of chlorzoxazone may include anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and nausea/vomiting. GI bleeding has been rarely reported with chlorzoxazone; a causal relationship has not been established. A number of reports have cited adverse hepatic reactions during therapy with chlorzoxazone. Hepatotoxicity may be benign (e.g., presenting as elevated hepatic enzymes) or more severe (e.g., jaundice, cholestasis, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hepatic failure). Drug-induced hepatotoxic reactions have been confirmed in some cases by rechallenge with the drug, but the mechanism for this reaction has not been elucidated. It is unclear whether the mechanism is due to hypersensitivity or due to dose-related direct hepatotoxicity. Onset of hepatoxicity can be highly variable and unpredictable, ranging anywhere from days to years after initiation of therapy. Chronic use of chlorzoxazone may also increase the risk for hepatoxicity. As hepatotoxicity appears to be idiosyncratic and unpredictable, instruct patients to promptly report the development of fever, rash, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, right upper quadrant pain, dark urine, or jaundice. Immediately discontinue chlorzoxazone if any of these signs or symptoms develop or if a patient develops elevated hepatic enzymes or hyperbilirubinemia. Discontinuation of the drug generally resolves hepatic dysfunction, but deaths have also been reported.Red-purple or orange urine discoloration may occur with chlorzoxazone use due to excretion of a phenolic metabolite. It is important that the health care professional distinguish this benign discoloration from that of darkened urine which may indicate hepatotoxicity.Hematologic effects that have been rarely reported with chlorzoxazone include anemia and neutropenia (granulocytopenia).
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dizziness, drowsiness, headache, malaise, torticollis
    General Information
    CNS depression is a predictable pharmacologic action of chlorzoxazone that leads to adverse effects such as drowsiness (sedation) and/or dizziness. Lightheadedness, malaise, or overstimulation may be noted by an occasional patient. In excessive dosage, a these symptoms may be accompanied by headache and a marked loss of muscle tone, which may make voluntary movement impossible. Chlorzoxazone-induced spasmodic torticollis occurred multiple times in a 46-year old woman receiving the drug for low back pain. The torticollis consisted of tonic deviation of the head to the right, tonic clenching of the teeth, and dysarthria. A temporal relationship was established, with the reaction developing 2 hours after multiple ingestions. Benztropine mesylate 1 mg IV resolved the symptoms. The mechanism appears to be inhibition of polysynaptic reflex pathways in the subcortical brain involved in maintaining muscle tone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      torticollis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, ecchymosis, petechiae, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Rarely, allergic-type skin rash (e.g., urticaria), petechiae, or ecchymosis may develop during chlorzoxazone treatment. Angioedema or anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions are extremely rare.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      petechiae
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    diarrhea, dyspepsia, GI bleeding, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal (GI) disturbances such a nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia, or diarrhea may occur, but these side effects are usually mild or not present with appropriate dosage of chlorzoxazone. GI bleeding has been rarely reported with chlorzoxazone; a causal relationship has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anemia, neutropenia
    General Information
    Chlorzoxazone is associated with drug-induced hepatotoxicity, which appears to be idiosyncratic and unpredictable. Hepatotoxicity may be mild (e.g., presenting as elevated hepatic enzymes) or more severe (e.g., jaundice, cholestasis, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hepatic failure). Drug-induced hepatotoxic reactions have been confirmed in some cases by rechallenge with the drug, but the mechanism for this reaction has not been elucidated. Chlorzoxazone treatment should generally be limited to acute use for short durations. Instruct patients to promptly report the development of fever, rash, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, right upper quadrant pain, dark urine, or jaundice. Immediately discontinue chlorzoxazone if any of these signs or symptoms develop. Use should also be discontinued if a patient develops abnormal liver enzymes (e.g., AST, ALT, alkaline phosphate) or hyperbilirubinemia. Discontinuation of the drug generally resolves hepatic dysfunction, but serious reactions, including fatalities, have also been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cholestasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    urine discoloration
    General Information
    Red-purple or orange urine discoloration may occur with chlorzoxazone use due to excretion of a phenolic metabolite. This finding is of no known clinical significance. There is no evidence that the drug will cause renal damage. It is important that the health care professional distinguish this benign discoloration from that of darkened urine which may occur with other early symptoms that might indicate hepatotoxicity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urine discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From

Description
  Text
  Chlorzoxazone is an oral, centrally acting, skeletal muscle-relaxing agent with sedative properties. Chlorzoxazone is used as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, analgesics and other measures in the treatment of acute musculoskeletal pain. Chlorzoxazone does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man, so the mode of action may be related to the sedative properties. Use of this drug has largely fallen out of favor due to the potential for sedative side effects, questionable efficacy, and a potential risk for liver toxicity. Chlorzoxazone is a known metabolite of zoxazolamine, a hepatotoxic skeletal muscle relaxant. By 1961, zoxazolamine had been associated with 15 hepatotoxic fatalities. At one time, chlorzoxazone was available in combination with acetaminophen, another drug known to be hepatotoxic when used in excess; however, this combination is no longer marketed. A single-dose rechallenge in a patient who experienced liver toxicity proved that chlorzoxazone was the hepatotoxic agent, not acetaminophen. There are a general lack of placebo-controlled randomized trials to demonstrate efficacy of the drug in acute musculoskeletal pain conditions. In one trial, the drug had no benefit vs. placebo to patients receiving morphine patient controlled analgesia in the adjunctive treatment of acute back pain following spinal surgery. Muscle relaxants such as chlorzoxazone may still be combined with other analgesics if needed for relief of pain secondary to muscle spasms, although it would be best to avoid hepatotoxic agents concurrently. Chlorzoxazone was officially FDA-approved in 1987, but pharmaceutical products had been marketed many years prior to that date.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The exact mode of action of chlorzoxazone has not been identified, but appears to be related to its sedative properties. Chlorzoxazone has no direct relaxant effect on skeletal muscle. Data available from animal experiments and human study indicate that chlorzoxazone acts primarily at the level of the spinal cord and subcortical areas of the brain where it inhibits multisynaptic reflex arcs involved in producing and maintaining skeletal muscle spasm of varied etiology. The clinical result is a reduction of the skeletal muscle spasm with relief of pain and increased mobility of the involved muscles. Pain relief is postulated to be due to alterations in the perception of pain. Chlorzoxazone is not associated with significant anticholinergic effects. The mechanism responsible for the rare hepatic toxicity seen with chlorzoxazone is unknown. The reaction is idiosyncratic and unpredictable. Factors that may predispose patients to hepatic toxicity with chlorzoxazone have not been identified.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Absorption of chlorzoxazone from the GI tract is rapid and complete. Blood levels can be detected within the first 30 minutes after administration. Blood levels of chlorzoxazone can be detected in humans during the first 30 minutes and peak levels occur approximately 1 to 2 hours after oral administration.
  Text
  Chlorzoxazone is administered orally. The drug is well distributed, with the highest concentrations found in plasma and fat, and lower concentrations found in the liver, muscle, brain and kidneys. The volume of distribution is roughly 14 L. It is not known if the drug is distributed into human milk or crosses the placenta. Metabolism occurs in the liver by CYP2E1, producing an inactive metabolite, 6-hydroxychlorzoxazone, which is then rapidly excreted as the glucuronide in the urine. Less than 1% of a dose is excreted unchanged in urine within 24 hours; 74% of the metabolite is excreted within 10 hours. The half-life of chlorzoxazone is roughly 60 minutes in adults with normal hepatic function.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes and drug transporters: CYP2E1, CYP3A4
Chlorzoxazone is metabolized by CYP2E1 to its inactive metabolite. Chlorzoxazone is often used in clinical studies that research the effect of various conditions or drugs on CYP2E1-mediated hepatic metabolism; it is considered an index substrate for this enzyme. In addition, chlorzoxazone may be a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      If stomach upset occurs, chlorzoxazone may be taken with food or milk.
The tablets may be crushed and mixed with food, milk, or fruit juice.
Parafon Forte DSC (500 mg) is a scored caplet and may be cut in half if a 250 mg dosage form is needed.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    3,000 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    3,000 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Chlorzoxazone is usually not a skeletal muscle relaxant of choice for people with hepatic impairment; use with caution. During treatment, if signs or symptoms of potential liver dysfunction or hepatic injury are reported, including abnormal liver enzymes (e.g., AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin), chlorzoxazone should be immediately discontinued. Chlorzoxazone has been associated with rare cases of idiosyncratic, unpredictable, severe (and fatal) hepatotoxicity; risk factors for these events are not known.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
