=== Difelikefalin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5355)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Difelikefalin is a parenteral kappa opioid receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe pruritus associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD-aP) in adults undergoing hemodialysis (HD).

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 0.5 mcg/kg/dose IV.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, gait disturbance, headache

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Difelikefalin may impair the mental or physical abilities needed for performing potentially hazardous activities or activities requiring coordination and concentration.

Brand Names
  - KORSUVA

Dosage Forms
  - KORSUVA 65mcg/1.3mL Solution for Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.5 mcg/kg/dose IV bolus into the venous line of the dialysis circuit at the end of each HD treatment. Total Injection Volume (mL) = Patient Target Dry Body Weight (kg) x 0.01, rounded to the nearest tenth (0.1 mL).
    Heading
    For the treatment of moderate-to-severe chronic kidney disease-associated pruritus (CKD-aP) in patients undergoing hemodialysis (HD)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use of difelikefalin is not recommended in individuals with hepatic failure; the influence of severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of difelikefalin has not been evaluated.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Difelikefalin may impair the mental or physical abilities needed for performing potentially hazardous activities or activities requiring coordination and concentration. Advise individuals to avoid driving or operating machinery until they are aware of the effects of the effect of difelikefalin on their ability to drive or operate machinery is known. Dizziness, somnolence, and mental status changes have occurred with difelikefalin.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    The limited data on use of difelikefalin in human pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk for major birth defects or miscarriage. In animal reproduction studies, intravenous injection of difelikefalin to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses 711 and 10 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively, resulted in no adverse effects in either rats or rabbits.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There are no data regarding the presence of difelikefalin in human milk or effects on the breast-fed infant or milk production. Studies in rats showed difelikefalin was transferred into the milk in lactating rats. When a drug is present in animal milk, it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for difelikefalin and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from difelikefalin or the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    The limited data on use of difelikefalin in human pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk for major birth defects or miscarriage. In animal reproduction studies, intravenous injection of difelikefalin to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses 711 and 10 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively, resulted in no adverse effects in either rats or rabbits.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There are no data regarding the presence of difelikefalin in human milk or effects on the breast-fed infant or milk production. Studies in rats showed difelikefalin was transferred into the milk in lactating rats. When a drug is present in animal milk, it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for difelikefalin and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from difelikefalin or the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
ALFentanil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Brexanolone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
CNS Depressant Medications (non-opioid): (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
fentaNYL: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Ganaxolone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Levorphanol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Meperidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Methadone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Molindone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Morphine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Oliceridine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Opiate Agonists: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Pimavanserin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Primidone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Propofol: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Remifentanil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Sodium Oxybate: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
SUFentanil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Tapentadol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
traMADol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Zuranolone: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, gait disturbance, headache
    General Information
    CNS-related adverse reactions reported in patients receiving difelikefalin in clinical trials (n = 424) and at a higher incidence than placebo (n = 424) included dizziness (6.8% vs. 3.8%), drowsiness (4.2% vs. 2.4%), mental status changes or confusion (3.3% vs. 1.4%), gait disturbance, including falls (6.6% vs. 5.4%), and headache (4.5% vs. 2.6%). Dizziness was serious in 0.2% of difelikefalin-treated subjects compared to 0% of subjects who received placebo and led to discontinuation in 0.9% of difelikefalin-treated subjects compared to 0.2% of subjects who received placebo. Drowsiness was serious in 0.2% of difelikefalin-treated subjects compared to 0% of subjects who received placebo; no subjects discontinued difelikefalin due to drowsiness. The incidence of drowsiness was higher in difelikefalin-treated patients 65 years and older compared with difelikefalin-treated patients younger than 65 years (7% vs. 2.8%). Mental status changes were serious in 1.4% of difelikefalin-treated subjects compared to 0.5% of subjects who received placebo and led to discontinuation in 0.7% of difelikefalin-treated subjects compared to 0.2% of subjects who received placebo. Falls were reported as serious adverse reactions in less than 1% of subjects receiving difelikefalin and placebo, with a single subject discontinuing difelikefalin due to gait disturbance. Most reactions occurred within the first 3 weeks of treatment and tended to subside with continued dosing.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gait disturbance
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    diarrhea, nausea
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal-related adverse reactions reported in patients receiving difelikefalin in clinical trials (n = 424) and at a higher incidence than placebo (n = 424) included diarrhea (9% vs. 5.7%) and nausea (6.6% vs. 4.5%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperkalemia
    General Information
    Hyperkalemia was reported in 4.7% of patients who received difelikefalin (n = 424) compared to 3.5% of patients who received placebo (n = 424) in clinical trials. The incidence of hyperkalemia was higher in patients who took concomitant opioids regardless of treatment and was almost doubled in the difelikefalin group (11.7%) compared to the placebo group (6.2%). The clinical relevance of this is unknown.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Difelikefalin is a parenteral kappa opioid receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe pruritus associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD-aP) in adults undergoing hemodialysis (HD). Difelikefalin has not been studied in patients on peritoneal dialysis and is not recommended for use in this population. The efficacy of difelikefalin was established in 2 randomized, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (n = 851). The proportion of subjects achieving a 4-point or more improvement (reduction) from baseline in weekly mean of the daily 24-hour Worst Itching Intensity Numerical Rating Score (WI-NRS) at week 12 was significantly higher in the difelikefalin group (37% to 40%) compared with the placebo group (21% to 26%). Dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances, including falls, have been associated with difelikefalin therapy and may subside over time with continued treatment.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Difelikefalin is a kappa opioid receptor (KOR) agonist. The relevance of KOR activation to therapeutic effectiveness is not known. Difelikefalin exposure-response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamic response are unknown.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of difelikefalin are dose proportional over a single dosage range of 1 to 3 mcg/kg (2 to 6 times the recommended dosage) and multiple intravenous dosage range of 0.5 to 2.5 mcg/kg (1 to 5 times the recommended dosage) in chronic kidney disease patients undergoing hemodialysis (HD). Steady-state was reached after the second administered dosage and the mean accumulation ratio was up to 1.6.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of difelikefalin were observed in patients with mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment. The effect of severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of difelikefalin is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of difelikefalin were observed based on age (25 to 80 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of difelikefalin were observed based on sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of difelikefalin were observed based on ethnicity.
  Text
  Difelikefalin is administered intravenously. The mean Vd of difelikefalin is approximately 238 mL/kg. Difelikefalin binding to human plasma protein in dialysis patients is 23% to 28%. Difelikefalin is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. After administration of difelikefalin to hemodialysis (HD) patients, 11% of the dosage was excreted in urine, 59% in feces, and 20% in dialysate fluid. After administration of radiolabeled difelikefalin, more than 99% of circulating radioactivity was present in plasma as parent. Hemodialysis reduced the difelikefalin plasma concentrations by 70% to 80% and difelikefalin was not detectable in plasma after 2 dialysis cycles. The half-life of difelikefalin in HD subjects prior to dialysis ranged between 23 and 31 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Preparation
Do not mix or dilute difelikefalin prior to administration.
Injection volume to be administered is determined by patient's target dry body weight in kilograms using the following formula: Patient Target Dry Body Weight (kg) x 0.01, rounded to the nearest tenth (0.1 mL). A single patient may use less than the full contents of the vial or use more than 1 vial.
Storage: Vials are single-use only. Discard any unused portion.
 
IV Push
Difelikefalin is removed by the dialyzer membrane and must be administered after blood is no longer circulating through the dialyzer.
Administer by IV bolus injection into the venous line of the dialysis circuit at the end of each hemodialysis (HD) session.
The dose may be given either during or after rinse back of the dialysis circuit.
If the dose is given after rinse back, administer difelikefalin into the venous line followed by at least 10 mL of normal saline flush.
If the dose is given during rinse back, no additional normal saline is needed to flush the line.
Storage: The dose must be administered within 60 minutes of the completion of the syringe preparation. Discard any unused product.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. The solution should be clear and colorless. Do not use vials if particulate matter or discoloration is observed.
Missed dose: If a regularly scheduled hemodialysis (HD) treatment is missed, resume difelikefalin at the end of the next HD treatment.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mcg/kg/dose IV.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mcg/kg/dose IV.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are necessary in patients with mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment. Use of difelikefalin is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
