=== Avalglucosidase alfa — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5351)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Avalglucosidase alfa is an enzyme replacement therapy approved for the treatment of late-onset acid alpha-glucosidase deficiency (Pompe disease) in patients 1 year of age and older.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): chills, conjunctival hyperemia, dizziness, dyspnea, fatigue, headache, hyperhidrosis, hypertension, hypotension, influenza, infusion-related reactions, throat irritation, tremor, arthralgia, fever, myalgia, paresthesias

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Consider premedication with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids. Administration requires a specialized care setting where cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment is readily available.

AVALGLUCOSIDASE ALFA

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Nexviazyme

Indication Specific Dosing

General Dosing Information
Use actual body weight to calculate dose.
Consider premedication with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids to reduce the risk of infusion-related reactions.


For the treatment of late-onset lysosomal Pompe disease (acid alpha-glucosidase deficiency)

Intravenous dosage
Adults


20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.


Children and Adolescents weighing 30 kg or more


20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.


Children and Adolescents weighing less than 30 kg


40 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis


Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis have occurred in individuals treated with avalglucosidase alfa. Consider premedication with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids. Administration requires a specialized care setting where cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment is readily available. If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs, immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Consider the risks and benefits of re-administration after a severe reaction. Some individuals have been re-challenged using slower infusion rates and lower than recommended dosages. A desensitization procedure may also be considered. If re-administration occurs, ensure the individual tolerates the infusion before the dose and/or rate is increased to the approved recommended dosage. If a mild-to-moderate hypersensitivity reaction occurs, temporarily hold or slow the infusion rate and initiate appropriate medical treatment.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

infusion-related reactions


Severe infusion-related reactions have occurred in patients treated with avalglucosidase alfa. Infusion-related reactions may occur during or within a few hours after infusion and are more likely to occur with higher infusion rates. Consider premedication with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids. If a severe infusion-related reaction occurs, immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Consider the risks and benefits of re-administration after a severe reaction. Some patients have been re-challenged using slower infusion rates and lower than recommended dosages. Once the patient tolerates the infusion, increase the dose and rate to the approved recommended dosage. If a mild-to-moderate infusion-related reaction occurs, temporarily hold or slow the infusion rate. Patients with acute underlying illness may be at greater risk for infusion-related reactions. Patients with advanced Pompe disease may have compromised cardiorespiratory function, predisposing them to a higher risk of severe complications from infusion-related reactions.


fluid restriction, heart failure, respiratory failure


Individuals susceptible to fluid volume overload, such as those with acute underlying respiratory illness or compromised cardiac disease or pulmonary disease for whom fluid restriction is indicated, may be at increased risk of heart failure, respiratory failure, or serious exacerbation of their cardiac or respiratory status during an avalglucosidase alfa infusion. Monitor vitals frequently in individuals with acute underlying respiratory illness or compromised cardiac or respiratory function who require fluid restriction. Some individuals may require prolonged observation.


pregnancy


Data is insufficient to evaluate the risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes associated with avalglucosidase alfa use during pregnancy. However, data from postmarketing reports and published case reports on alglucosidase alfa (another hydrolytic lysosomal glycogen-specific enzyme replacement therapy) use in pregnant individuals have not identified a drug-associated risk. Embryo-fetal toxicity studies in pregnant mice resulted in maternal toxicity related to an immunologic response and embryo-fetal loss at exposures (AUC) 10 to 17 times the human exposure. Adverse effects were likely related to the immunologic response in the mothers; avalglucosidase alfa did not cross the placenta. Embryo-fetal toxicity studies in pregnant rabbits resulted in no adverse fetal effects at 50 to 91 times the human exposure. Untreated Pompe disease has been associated with worsening disease symptoms in pregnant individuals. Report avalglucosidase alfa exposure during pregnancy by calling 1-800-633-1610, option 1.


breast-feeding


Use avalglucosidase alfa with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of avalglucosidase alfa in human or animal milk, its effect on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production. Limited data has observed the presence of alglucosidase alfa (another hydrolytic lysosomal glycogen-specific enzyme replacement therapy) in human milk. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. Lactating individuals exposed to avalglucosidase alfa should report exposure by calling 1-800-633-1610, option 1.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Data is insufficient to evaluate the risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes associated with avalglucosidase alfa use during pregnancy. However, data from postmarketing reports and published case reports on alglucosidase alfa (another hydrolytic lysosomal glycogen-specific enzyme replacement therapy) use in pregnant individuals have not identified a drug-associated risk. Embryo-fetal toxicity studies in pregnant mice resulted in maternal toxicity related to an immunologic response and embryo-fetal loss at exposures (AUC) 10 to 17 times the human exposure. Adverse effects were likely related to the immunologic response in the mothers; avalglucosidase alfa did not cross the placenta. Embryo-fetal toxicity studies in pregnant rabbits resulted in no adverse fetal effects at 50 to 91 times the human exposure. Untreated Pompe disease has been associated with worsening disease symptoms in pregnant individuals. Report avalglucosidase alfa exposure during pregnancy by calling 1-800-633-1610, option 1.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Avalglucosidase alfa products.

Adverse Reaction
cough, dysphagia, erythema, flushing, pruritus, rash, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, urticaria


Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis have occurred in patients treated with avalglucosidase alfa. If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs, immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Consider the risks and benefits of re-administration after a severe reaction. Some patients have been re-challenged using slower infusion rates and lower than recommended dosages. A desensitization procedure may also be considered. If re-administration occurs, ensure the patient tolerates the infusion before the dose and/or rate is increased to the approved recommended dosage. If a mild-to-moderate hypersensitivity reaction occurs, temporarily hold or slow the infusion rate and initiate appropriate medical treatment. In clinical trials, 48% of avalglucosidase alfa-treated patients experienced hypersensitivity reactions; this included 6 (4%) patients with severe reactions and 3 (2%) additional patients who experienced anaphylaxis. Some reactions were IgE mediated. Symptoms of severe hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis included respiratory distress, chest discomfort/chest pain (unspecified), flushing, cough, erythema (6%), lip swelling, pruritus (8%), urticaria (6%), swollen tongue, dysphagia, and rash.


abdominal pain, chills, conjunctival hyperemia, diarrhea, dizziness, dyspnea, fatigue, headache, hyperhidrosis, hypertension, hypotension, influenza, infusion-related reactions, nausea, throat irritation, tremor, vomiting


Severe infusion-related reactions have occurred in patients treated with avalglucosidase alfa. If a severe infusion-related reaction occurs, immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Consider the risks and benefits of re-administration after a severe reaction; some patients have been re-challenged using slower infusion rates and lower than recommended dosages initially before increasing the dose and rate. If a mild-to-moderate infusion-related reaction occurs, temporarily hold or slow the infusion rate. In clinical trials, infusion-related reactions were reported in 34% of avalglucosidase alfa-treated patients. In these trials, 4% of avalglucosidase alfa-treated patients reported 10 severe infusion-related reactions including symptoms of chest discomfort, decreased or increased blood pressure, dysphagia, erythema, generalized edema, hypoxia, nausea, respiratory distress, tongue edema, and urticaria. Reactions that lead to treatment discontinuation were chest discomfort, cough, dizziness, erythema, flushing, nausea, ocular hyperemia, respiratory distress, and urticaria. An increased incidence of infusion-related reactions was observed in patients with higher ADA titers. During clinical trials, the majority of reactions were mild to moderate. The most common reactions were headache (22%), fatigue (18%), diarrhea (12%), dizziness (10%), nausea (12%), pruritus (8%), vomiting (8%), erythema (6%), and urticaria (6%). Chills, cough, rash, and abdominal pain were reported in more than 5% of patients. Influenza-like illness, ocular/conjunctival hyperemia, erythematous rash, sinus tachycardia, chest discomfort, hyperhidrosis, lip swelling, decreased oxygen saturation, pain, palmar erythema, swollen tongue, burning sensation, eyelid edema, feeling cold, flushing, respiratory distress, throat irritation, and tremor were reported in more than 1 patient in clinical trials (total n = 141). Dyspnea (6%), hypertension (more than 5%), and hypotension (more than 5%) were also reported.


arthralgia, fever, myalgia, paresthesias


Arthralgia (10%), myalgia (10%), paresthesias (6%), and fever (more than 5%) were reported during clinical trials of avalglucosidase alfa.


antibody formation


Antibody formation can occur with avalglucosidase alfa use. Anti-drug antibodies (ADA) were present in 3% of treatment-naive patients at baseline and 95% at of patients after treatment. In adults previously treated with alglucosidase alfa, ADA were present in 74% of patients at baseline and 62% after avalglucosidase alfa treatment. In treatment-experienced pediatric patients, 13% to 17% had ADA at baseline compared to 17% to 56% after treatment. Hypersensitivity and infusion-related reactions are more common in patients with ADA. The incidence of infusion-related reactions was 69% in those with an ADA peak titer of 12,800 or more, compared to 27% in those with ADA peak titer less than 12,800 and 33% in those who were ADA-negative. The incidence of hypersensitivity was higher in those with higher ADA titers compared to lower titers. The development of ADA did not have an apparent impact on clinical efficacy. Antibodies to avalglucosidase alfa were cross reactive to alglucosidase alfa.


Description

Avalglucosidase alfa is an enzyme replacement therapy approved for the treatment of late-onset acid alpha-glucosidase deficiency (Pompe disease) in patients 1 year of age and older. Pompe disease is caused by a genetic deficiency in acid alpha-glucosidase, an enzyme required for lysosomal glycogen degradation. Accumulation of glycogen in skeletal and heart muscle results in muscular weakness and respiratory or heart failure. Treatment with avalglucosidase alfa improved lung function similar to that of alglucosidase alfa, another enzyme replacement therapy, in a study of 100 randomized patients; treatment differences slightly favored avalglucosidase alfa. Forced vital capacity percent-predicted improved 2.9% and 0.5% in avalglucosidase alfa and alglucosidase alfa-treated patients, respectively, compared to baseline at Week 49. Additionally, patients treated with avalglucosidase alfa walked 32.2 meters further compared to baseline and 30 meters further compared to alglucosidase alfa, as measured by a 6-minute walk test. The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials were headache, fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, arthralgia, dizziness, and myalgia. Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and infusion-related reactions can occur. Patients susceptible to fluid volume overload or with compromised cardiac or respiratory function may be at risk for serious acute cardiorespiratory failure. Premedication with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids is recommended and resuscitative equipment should be readily available during administration.

Mechanism Of Action

Avalglucosidase alfa provides an exogenous source of the lysosomal enzyme acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA), which is required for lysosomal glycogen degradation. After binding to mannose 6-phosphate (M6P) receptors on the cellular surface, avalglucosidase alfa is internalized and transported into lysosomes where it undergoes proteolytic cleavage that results in increased enzymatic activity and the cleavage of glycogen.

Pharmacokinetics

Avalglucosidase alfa is administered intravenously. Volume of distribution is 3.4 L in patients with late-onset Pompe disease. The metabolic pathway of avalglucosidase has not been characterized, but the protein portion is expected to be metabolized into small peptides and amino acids via catabolic pathways. Mean clearance is 0.9 L/hour and mean half-life is 1.6 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

Avalglucosidase alfa exposure increases in a proportional manner with increasing doses over a range of 5 to 20 mg/kg. No accumulation was observed with every 2 weeks dosing. Mean Cmax and AUC were 259 mcg/mL and 1,290 mcg/mL x hour, respectively, at Week 1 and 242 mcg/mL and 1,250 mcg/mL x hour, respectively, at Week 49 after infusion of 20 mg/kg/dose every 2 weeks in patients weighing 30 kg or more. Patients weighing less than 30 kg are expected to have similar exposure after infusion of 40 mg/kg/dose every 2 weeks.

Pediatrics

Children
Age does not significantly influence avalglucosidase alfa pharmacokinetics. Mean Cmax ranged from 175 to 189 mcg/mL and AUC ranged from 805 to 923 mcg/mL x hour in patients receiving 20 mg/kg/dose over 4 hours every 2 weeks. Mean Cmax ranged from 250 to 403 mcg/mL and AUC ranged from 1,720 to 2,630 mcg/mL x hour in patients receiving 40 mg/kg/dose over 7 hours every 2 weeks.

Geriatric

Age does not significantly influence avalglucosidase alfa pharmacokinetics in patients aged 1 to 78 years.

Gender Differences

Gender does not significantly influence avalglucosidase alfa pharmacokinetics.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Requires a specialized care setting where cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment is readily available.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
The reconstituted solution is clear, colorless to pale-yellow. If 1 or more doses of avalglucosidase alfa are missed, restart treatment as soon as possible, maintaining the 2 week interval between infusions.


Intravenous Administration

Reconstitution
Allow vials to reach room temperature outside the refrigerator for approximately 30 minutes.
Inject 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection into each vial by slow drop-wise addition of the diluent down the inside of the vial (not directly onto the lyophilized powder).
Tilt and roll vial gently until fully dissolved. Avoid forceful impact of the diluent on the lyophilized powder to avoid foaming. Do not invert, swirl, or shake.
Each vial yields 100 mg/10 mL after reconstitution.
Storage: If immediate use is not possible, store for up to 24 hours refrigerated (36 to 46 degrees F [2 to 8 degrees C]). Do not freeze.
 
Dilution
Prepare 5% dextrose infusion bag by removing a volume equal to the required avalglucosidase alfa volume and any overfill.
Slowly withdraw the appropriate volume of reconstituted solution from each vial. Discard any unused reconstituted solution remaining in the vial.
Add the reconstituted solution slowly and directly into 5% Dextrose Injection. Total infusion volume is based on the patient's actual body weight:
Weight 120 to 140 kg = 700 mL
Weight 100 to 119.9 kg = 600 mL
Weight 60 to 99.9 kg = 500 mL
Weight 50 to 59.9 kg = 300 mL
Weight 35 to 49.9 kg = 250 mL
Weight 30 to 34.9 kg = 200 mL
Weight 20 to 29.9 kg = 300 mL
Weight 10 to 19.9 kg = 200 mL
Weight 5 to 9.9 kg = 100 mL
Avoid air introduction into the infusion bag. Discard unused reconstituted solution.
Mix the contents of the infusion bag by gently inverting the bag. Avoid foaming or agitation. Do not shake.
The solution will have a final concentration of 0.5 to 4 mg/mL after dilution.
Administer without delay; the recommended infusion duration is between 4 and 7 hours. Discard unused diluted solution after 9 hours.
Storage: If immediate use is not possible, store for up to 24 hours refrigerated (36 to 46 degrees F [2 to 8 degrees C]). Do not freeze. If the diluted solution is removed from the refrigerator, it must not be restored in the refrigerator. Allow refrigerated diluted solution to sit at room temperature for 30 minutes prior to using. The diluted solution must be completely infused within 9 hours of removal from the refrigerator.
 
IV Infusion
Consider pretreatment with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids.
Use an in-line, low protein binding, 0.2 micrometer filter.
Infuse at an initial rate of 1 mg/kg/hour, gradually increasing the rate every 30 minutes if there are no signs of hypersensitivity or infusion-related reactions.
40 mg/kg dose, initial infusion (4-step process): Start at 1 mg/kg/hour, then increase incrementally every 30 minutes (3 mg/kg/hour, 5 mg/kg/hour, then 7 mg/kg/hour) for a total infusion duration of 7 hours.
40 mg/kg dose, subsequent infusions (4- or 5-step process): Administer as per 4-step process or decrease infusion time to 5 hours by increasing the infusion rate every 30 minutes in 5 steps (1 mg/kg/hour, 3 mg/kg/hour, 6 mg/kg/hour, 8 mg/kg/hour, 10 mg/kg/hour).
20 mg/kg dose, initial and subsequent infusions: Start at 1 mg/kg/hour, then increase incrementally every 30 minutes (3 mg/kg/hour, 5 mg/kg/hour, then 7 mg/kg/hour) for a total infusion duration of 4 to 5 hours.
If a severe infusion-related or hypersensitivity reaction occurs, immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
Consider the risks and benefits of re-administering avalglucosidase alfa after severe hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis).
Some patients have been re-challenged using slower infusion rates and lower than recommended dosages. A desensitization procedure may also be considered. If re-administration occurs, ensure the patient tolerates the infusion before the dose and/or rate is increased to the approved recommended dosage.
If a mild-to-moderate infusion-related reaction or mild-to-moderate hypersensitivity reaction occurs, temporarily hold the infusion for 30 minutes or slow the infusion rate by 50% and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
If symptoms persist for longer than 30 minutes despite temporarily holding or slowing the infusion, stop the infusion and monitor the patient. Consider re-initiating the infusion on the same day when symptoms subside at 50% of the rate at which the reaction occurred with appropriate pretreatment.
If symptoms subside after holding the infusion, resume the infusion at 50% of the rate at which the reaction occurred, and subsequently increase the infusion rate every 15 to 30 minutes by 50% as tolerated. If symptoms subside after slowing the infusion, complete the infusion at the reduced rate as tolerated.
Starting with the next infusion, increase the infusion rate until reaching the infusion rate at which the reaction occurred. Consider continuing to increase the infusion rate in a stepwise manner until reaching the recommended infusion rate. Closely monitor the patient.
Flush the line with 5% Dextrose Injection after the infusion is complete.
Discard any unused diluted product after 9 hours.
Do not infuse avalglucosidase alfa in the same line with other products.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Geriatric

20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Adolescents

weighing 30 kg or more: 20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.
weighing less than 30 kg: 40 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Children

weighing 30 kg or more: 20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.
weighing less than 30 kg: 40 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Nexviazyme 100mg Powder for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier