=== Amivantamab/Hyaluronidase — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5644)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Amivantamab; hyaluronidase-lpuj is a subcutaneous combination of amivantamab, a bispecific epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and MET receptor-directed antibody, and hyaluronidase, an endoglycosidase.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 80 kg or more: 4,640 mg amivantamab and 58,000 units hyaluronidase.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis, pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism, thrombosis, acneiform rash, pruritus, rash, skin ulcer, toxic epidermal necrolysis, xerosis, blepharitis, blurred vision, keratitis, ocular pruritus, ocular toxicity, uveitis, visual impairment, xerophthalmia, conjunctivitis, infection, sepsis, anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, hyperglycemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pulmonary disease Use amivantamab; hyaluronidase with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe and fatal pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease... Patient counseling: Limit sun exposure during and for 2 months after treatment; patients should wear protective clothing and use broad-spectrum UVA/UVB sunscreen. Emetic risk: Low

AMIVANTAMAB/HYALURONIDASE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Rybrevant Faspro

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)

For the first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations, in combination with lazertinib
Subcutaneous dosage, every-2-week regimen
Adults weighing 80 kg or more


2,240 mg amivantamab and 28,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly for 4 weeks, and then every 2 weeks beginning on day 1 of week 5 until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Administer in combination with lazertinib 240 mg PO once daily; give lazertinib at any time prior to amivantamab when given on the same day. Administer recommended premedications including venous thromboembolic event (VTE) prophylaxis prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. Treatment with lazertinib and IV amivantamab significantly improved median overall survival (not reached vs. 36.7 months) and median progression-free survival compared with osimertinib (23.7 months vs. 16.6 months) in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with either exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations in a multicenter, randomized, phase 3 clinical trial (MARIPOSA); the overall response rate was 78% versus 73% (complete response [CR], 5.4% vs. 3.5%) for a median response of 25.8 months versus 16.7 months, respectively. A similar percentage of patients had a duration of response of at least 6 months after treatment with lazertinib/amivantamab and osimertinib (86% vs. 85%); the duration of response was at least 12 months in 68% of patients in the lazertinib arm compared with 57% of those in the osimertinib arm.


Adults weighing less than 80 kg


1,600 mg amivantamab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly for 4 weeks, and then every 2 weeks beginning on day 1 of week 5 until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Administer in combination with lazertinib 240 mg PO once daily; give lazertinib at any time prior to amivantamab when given on the same day. Administer recommended premedications including venous thromboembolic event (VTE) prophylaxis prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. Treatment with lazertinib and IV amivantamab significantly improved median overall survival (not reached vs. 36.7 months) and median progression-free survival compared with osimertinib (23.7 months vs. 16.6 months) in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with either exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations in a multicenter, randomized, phase 3 clinical trial (MARIPOSA); the overall response rate was 78% versus 73% (complete response [CR], 5.4% vs. 3.5%) for a median response of 25.8 months versus 16.7 months, respectively. A similar percentage of patients had a duration of response of at least 6 months after treatment with lazertinib/amivantamab and osimertinib (86% vs. 85%); the duration of response was at least 12 months in 68% of patients in the lazertinib arm compared with 57% of those in the osimertinib arm.


Subcutaneous dosage, converting from every-2-week dosage to every-4-week dosage
Adults


Patients receiving amivantamab; hyaluronidase at an every-2-week dosing regimen may switch to an every-4-week dosing regimen at their next scheduled dose on or after week 5.


Subcutaneous dosage, every-4-week regimen
Adults weighing 80 kg or more


2,240 mg amivantamab and 28,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly for 4 weeks. Beginning on week 5, administer 4,640 mg amivantamab and 58,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 4 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Administer in combination with lazertinib 240 mg PO once daily; give lazertinib at any time prior to amivantamab when given on the same day. Administer recommended premedications including venous thromboembolic event (VTE) prophylaxis prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. Treatment with lazertinib and IV amivantamab significantly improved median overall survival (not reached vs. 36.7 months) and median progression-free survival compared with osimertinib (23.7 months vs. 16.6 months) in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with either exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations in a multicenter, randomized, phase 3 clinical trial (MARIPOSA); the overall response rate was 78% versus 73% (complete response [CR], 5.4% vs. 3.5%) for a median response of 25.8 months versus 16.7 months, respectively. A similar percentage of patients had a duration of response of at least 6 months after treatment with lazertinib/amivantamab and osimertinib (86% vs. 85%); the duration of response was at least 12 months in 68% of patients in the lazertinib arm compared with 57% of those in the osimertinib arm.


Adults weighing less than 80 kg


1,600 mg amivantamab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly for 4 weeks. Beginning on week 5, administer 3,520 mg amivantamab and 44,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 4 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Administer in combination with lazertinib 240 mg PO once daily; give lazertinib at any time prior to amivantamab when given on the same day. Administer recommended premedications including venous thromboembolic event (VTE) prophylaxis prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. Treatment with lazertinib and IV amivantamab significantly improved median overall survival (not reached vs. 36.7 months) and median progression-free survival compared with osimertinib (23.7 months vs. 16.6 months) in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with either exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations in a multicenter, randomized, phase 3 clinical trial (MARIPOSA); the overall response rate was 78% versus 73% (complete response [CR], 5.4% vs. 3.5%) for a median response of 25.8 months versus 16.7 months, respectively. A similar percentage of patients had a duration of response of at least 6 months after treatment with lazertinib/amivantamab and osimertinib (86% vs. 85%); the duration of response was at least 12 months in 68% of patients in the lazertinib arm compared with 57% of those in the osimertinib arm.


For the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations in patients with disease progression on or after treatment with an EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, in combination with carboplatin and pemetrexed
Subcutaneous dosage
Adults weighing 80 kg or more


2,240 mg amivantamab and 28,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously on day 1 of Week 1. Increase the dose to 3,360 mg amivantamab and 42,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly on day 1 of weeks 2 and 3. Beginning on day 1 of week 4, administer 3,360 mg amivantamab and 42,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Administer recommended premedications prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Administer in combination with pemetrexed (500 mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity) and carboplatin (AUC 5 IV every 3 weeks for up to 12 weeks [4 cycles]). Infuse pemetrexed first, followed by carboplatin, and then amivantamab. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. In a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (MARIPOSA-2), treatment with amivantamab in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin significantly improved median progression-free survival (PFS) compared with pemetrexed and carboplatin alone (6.3 months vs. 4.2 months) and objective response rate (ORR) (53% vs. 29%; complete response, 0.8% vs. 0%) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations and progressive disease on or after receiving osimertinib. The median duration of response was 6.9 months versus 5.6 months, respectively. At a prespecified interim analysis, median overall survival was not significantly different between treatment arms (17.7 months vs. 15.3 months). In a prespecified secondary analysis of the 23% of patients with baseline intracranial disease, the rate of intracranial complete response by a blinded independent central review (BICR) was 20% in the amivantamab arm compared with 7% in patients who received chemotherapy alone; data are not available for intracranial partial responses.


Adults weighing less than 80 kg


1,600 mg amivantamab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously on day 1 of Week 1. Increase the dose to 2,400 mg amivantamab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly on day 1 of weeks 2 and 3. Beginning on day 1 of week 4,  administer 2,400 mg amivantamab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Administer recommended premedications prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Administer in combination with pemetrexed (500 mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity) and carboplatin (AUC 5 IV every 3 weeks for up to 12 weeks [4 cycles]). Infuse pemetrexed first, followed by carboplatin, and then amivantamab. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. In a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (MARIPOSA-2), treatment with amivantamab in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin significantly improved median progression-free survival (PFS) compared with pemetrexed and carboplatin alone (6.3 months vs. 4.2 months) and objective response rate (ORR) (53% vs. 29%; complete response, 0.8% vs. 0%) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations and progressive disease on or after receiving osimertinib. The median duration of response was 6.9 months versus 5.6 months, respectively. At a prespecified interim analysis, median overall survival was not significantly different between treatment arms (17.7 months vs. 15.3 months). In a prespecified secondary analysis of the 23% of patients with baseline intracranial disease, the rate of intracranial complete response by a blinded independent central review (BICR) was 20% in the amivantamab arm compared with 7% in patients who received chemotherapy alone; data are not available for intracranial partial responses.


For the first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations, in combination with carboplatin and pemetrexed
Subcutaneous dosage
Adults weighing 80 kg or more


2,240 mg amivantamab and 28,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously on day 1 of Week 1. Increase the dose to 3,360 mg amivantamab and 42,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly on day 1 of weeks 2 and 3. Beginning on day 1 of week 4, administer 3,360 mg amivantamab and 42,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Administer recommended premedications prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Administer in combination with pemetrexed (500 mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity) and carboplatin (AUC 5 IV every 3 weeks for up to 12 weeks [4 cycles]). Infuse pemetrexed first, followed by carboplatin, and then amivantamab; hyaluronidase. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. Treatment with IV amivantamab, pemetrexed, and carboplatin significantly improved median progression-free survival (11.4 months vs. 6.7 months) compared with pemetrexed and carboplatin alone in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations in a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (PAPILLON). The objective response rate was 67% in the amivantamab arm (complete response [CR], 4%) for a median duration of 10.1 months compared with 36% in the chemotherapy-alone arm (CR, 1%) for a median duration of 5.6 months.


Adults weighing less than 80 kg


1,600 mg amivantamab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously on day 1 of Week 1. Increase the dose to 2,400 mg amivantamab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly on day 1 of weeks 2 and 3. Beginning on day 1 of week 4, administer 2,400 mg amivantamab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Administer recommended premedications prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Administer in combination with pemetrexed (500 mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity) and carboplatin (AUC 5 IV every 3 weeks for up to 12 weeks [4 cycles]). Infuse pemetrexed first, followed by carboplatin, and then amivantamab; hyaluronidase. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. Treatment with IV amivantamab, pemetrexed, and carboplatin significantly improved median progression-free survival (11.4 months vs. 6.7 months) compared with pemetrexed and carboplatin alone in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations in a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (PAPILLON). The objective response rate was 67% in the amivantamab arm (complete response [CR], 4%) for a median duration of 10.1 months compared with 36% in the chemotherapy-alone arm (CR, 1%) for a median duration of 5.6 months.


For the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations with progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy, as monotherapy
Subcutaneous dosage, every-2-week regimen
Adults weighing 80 kg or more


2,240 mg amivantamab and 28,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly for 4 weeks, and then every 2 weeks beginning on day 1 of week 5 until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Administer recommended premedications prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase.The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. In a multicenter, open-label, multicohort clinical trial (CHRYSALIS), treatment with IV amivantamab resulted in an overall response rate of 40% (complete response, 3.7%) for a median duration of 11.1 months in 81 patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy; the duration of response was at least 6 months in 63% of patients. At a median follow-up time of 9.7 months, the median progression-free survival and overall survival times were 8.3 months and 22.8 months, respectively. In this trial, patients received a median of 2 prior therapies.


Adults weighing less than 80 kg


1,600 mg amivantamab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly for 4 weeks, and then every 2 weeks beginning on day 1 of week 5 until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Administer recommended premedications prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. In a multicenter, open-label, multicohort clinical trial (CHRYSALIS), treatment with IV amivantamab resulted in an overall response rate of 40% (complete response, 3.7%) for a median duration of 11.1 months in 81 patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy; the duration of response was at least 6 months in 63% of patients. At a median follow-up time of 9.7 months, the median progression-free survival and overall survival times were 8.3 months and 22.8 months, respectively. In this trial, patients received a median of 2 prior therapies.


Subcutaneous dosage, converting from every-2-week dosage to every-4-week dosage
Adults


Patients receiving amivantamab; hyaluronidase at an every-2-week dosing regimen may switch to an every-4-week dosing regimen at their next scheduled dose on or after week 5.


Subcutaneous dosage, every-4-week regimen
Adults weighing 80 kg or more


2,240 mg amivantamab and 28,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly for 4 weeks. Beginning on week 5, administer 4,640 mg amivantamab and 58,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 4 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Administer recommended premedications prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. In a multicenter, open-label, multicohort clinical trial (CHRYSALIS), treatment with IV amivantamab resulted in an overall response rate of 40% (complete response, 3.7%) for a median duration of 11.1 months in 81 patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy; the duration of response was at least 6 months in 63% of patients. At a median follow-up time of 9.7 months, the median progression-free survival and overall survival times were 8.3 months and 22.8 months, respectively. In this trial, patients received a median of 2 prior therapies.


Adults weighing less than 80 kg


1,600 mg amivantamab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly for 4 weeks. Beginning on week 5, administer 3,520 mg amivantamab and 44,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously every 4 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Administer recommended premedications prior to each dose of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. The efficacy of subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of IV amivantamab. In a multicenter, open-label, multicohort clinical trial (CHRYSALIS), treatment with IV amivantamab resulted in an overall response rate of 40% (complete response, 3.7%) for a median duration of 11.1 months in 81 patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy; the duration of response was at least 6 months in 63% of patients. At a median follow-up time of 9.7 months, the median progression-free survival and overall survival times were 8.3 months and 22.8 months, respectively. In this trial, patients received a median of 2 prior therapies.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pulmonary disease


Use amivantamab; hyaluronidase with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe and fatal pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease (ILD) has been reported in patients treated with IV amivantamab. Advise patients to immediately report any new or worsening respiratory symptoms including cough, dyspnea, or fever. Monitor patients for pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis and immediately interrupt therapy if ILD/pneumonitis is suspected; permanently discontinue amivantamab; hyaluronidase if ILD/pneumonitis is confirmed.


ocular disease


Use amivantamab; hyaluronidase with caution in patients with a history of ocular disease. Intravenous amivantamab can cause ocular toxicity, including keratitis, blepharitis, dry eye symptoms, conjunctival redness, blurred vision, visual impairment, ocular itching, eye pruritus, and uveitis. Promptly refer patients with new or worsening ocular symptoms to an ophthalmologist. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for ocular adverse reactions.


pregnancy


Amivantamab; hyaluronidase may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. There are no available human or animal data to assess the risk of using amivantamab; hyaluronidase during pregnancy. In animal models, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is critically important in reproductive and developmental processes including blastocyst implantation, placental development, and embryo-fetal/postnatal survival and development. Reduction or elimination of embryo-fetal or maternal EGFR signaling can prevent implantation, can cause embryo-fetal loss during various stages of gestation, and can cause developmental anomalies and early death in surviving fetuses. Similarly, knock out of MET or its ligand HGF caused embryonic death due to severe defects in placental development and fetuses displayed defects in muscle development in multiple organs. Human IgG1 is known to cross the placenta; therefore, amivantamab; hyaluronidase has the potential to be transmitted to the developing fetus.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Amivantamab; hyaluronidase may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking amivantamab; hyaluronidase and for 3 months after the last dose.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking amivantamab; hyaluronidase and for 3 months after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of amivantamab; hyaluronidase in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. However, amivantamab; hyaluronidase has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breast-fed child.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Amivantamab; hyaluronidase may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. There are no available human or animal data to assess the risk of using amivantamab; hyaluronidase during pregnancy. In animal models, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is critically important in reproductive and developmental processes including blastocyst implantation, placental development, and embryo-fetal/postnatal survival and development. Reduction or elimination of embryo-fetal or maternal EGFR signaling can prevent implantation, can cause embryo-fetal loss during various stages of gestation, and can cause developmental anomalies and early death in surviving fetuses. Similarly, knock out of MET or its ligand HGF caused embryonic death due to severe defects in placental development and fetuses displayed defects in muscle development in multiple organs. Human IgG1 is known to cross the placenta; therefore, amivantamab; hyaluronidase has the potential to be transmitted to the developing fetus.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Amide local anesthetics: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Aspirin, ASA: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Carbinoxamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorcyclizine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Clemastine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Minor) Corticosteroids (e.g., cortisone, corticotropin, ACTH), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cortisone: (Minor) Corticosteroids (e.g., cortisone, corticotropin, ACTH), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cyproheptadine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Doxylamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ester local anesthetics: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
hydrOXYzine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Meclizine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Salicylates: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Salsalate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Triprolidine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.


Adverse Reaction
anaphylactoid reactions


Hypersensitivity (anaphylactoid reactions) and administration-related reactions (ARR) can occur with amivantamab; hyaluronidase including dyspnea, flushing, fever, chills, chest discomfort, hypotension, and vomiting. The median time to first onset of ARR symptoms is approximately 2 hours. ARR occurred in 13% (grade 3, 0.5%) of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib in the PALOMA-3 trial compared to 66% of patients treated with intravenous amivantamab plus lazertinib; 89% of ARR occurred with the initial dose (week 1 day 1) of amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Observe patients for ARR during injection in a setting where cardiopulmonary resuscitation medication and equipment are available. Interrupt amivantamab; hyaluronidase injection if ARR is suspected; resume treatment upon resolution of symptoms and include a corticosteroid with premedications for the subsequent dose or permanently discontinue therapy based on severity.


cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis


Amivantamab; hyaluronidase can cause severe and fatal interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis. ILD/pneumonitis occurred in 6% (grade 3 or 4, 2.5%) of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib in the PALOMA-3 trial; fatal cases occurred in 1.9% of patients in the same population. ILD/pneumonitis also occurred in 2.1% to 3.3% (grade 3, 0.7% to 1.8%; grade 4, 0.2% or less) of patients treated with IV amivantamab as monotherapy or in combination with lazertinib or carboplatin and pemetrexed. Dyspnea was reported in 11% to 37% (grade 3 or 4, 1.3% to 2.3%) and cough in 14% to 25% of NSCLC patients who received IV amivantamab in clinical trials. Immediately withhold amivantamab; hyaluronidase for suspected ILD/pneumonitis and permanently discontinue if ILD/pneumonitis is confirmed.


pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism, thrombosis


Serious and fatal cases of venous thromboembolism (VTE), including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) have occurred with amivantamab; hyaluronidase in combination with lazertinib. Without prophylactic anticoagulation, the majority of VTE events occur during the first 4 months of therapy. VTE occurred in 11% (grade 3, 1.5%) of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib in the PALOMA-3 trial; 80% of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib received prophylactic anticoagulation. In this trial, the incidence of VTE in those receiving prophylactic anticoagulation was 7% (n = 164); it was 17% in patients (n = 42) who did not receive prophylactic anticoagulation. VTE occurred in 36% (grade 3 or 4, 10.5%) of patients treated with IV amivantamab plus lazertinib in a separate randomized clinical trial with fatal cases occurring in 0.5%; the incidence was 1.2% in patients receiving prophylactic anticoagulation. Pulmonary embolism was reported in 2.3% to less than 10% of patients treated with IV amivantamab plus pemetrexed and carboplatin in 2 clinical trials and in at least 2% of patients treated with IV amivantamab monotherapy in 1 single-arm trial; DVT occurred in less than 10% of patients treated with amivantamab plus pemetrexed/carboplatin in 1 of these trials. Administer prophylactic anticoagulation for the first 4 months of treatment with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib. If VTE occurs, treat as medically necessary; an interruption of therapy or permanent discontinuation may be necessary depending on severity. Permanently discontinue amivantamab; hyaluronidase for VTE recurrence despite therapeutic anticoagulation.


acneiform rash, pruritus, rash, skin ulcer, toxic epidermal necrolysis, xerosis


Amivantamab; hyaluronidase can cause severe rash including toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), dermatitis acneiform (acneiform rash), pruritus, and xerosis. Rash occurred in 80% (grade 3 or 4, 17.5%) of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib in the PALOMA-3 trial, which was similar to the incidence of rash in patients treated with IV amivantamab in combination with lazertinib or pemetrexed/carboplatin (82% to 86%; grade 3, 15% to 26%). The overall incidence of rash was similar with IV amivantamab monotherapy in a single-arm trial (74%), although there was a lower incidence of grade 3 rash (3.3%); TEN occurred in 1 patient (0.3%) in the same population. Additional dermatologic reactions reported with amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab as monotherapy or in combination with other treatments include nail toxicity (45% to 62%; grade 3 or 4, 2.3% to 11%), xerosis (15% to 25%; grade 3 or 4, 1% or less), pruritus (15% to 24%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5% or less) and skin ulcer (less than 10%). Paronychia occurred in 50% (grade 3 or 4, 3.1%) of patients treated with amivantamab monotherapy in 1 trial. Administer supportive care including topical corticosteroids and topical and/or oral antibiotics if skin reactions develop; add oral steroids and consider a dermatologic consultation for grade 3 reactions. Promptly refer patients presenting with severe rash, atypical appearance or distribution, or lack of improvement within 2 weeks to a dermatologist. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.


blepharitis, blurred vision, keratitis, ocular pruritus, ocular toxicity, uveitis, visual impairment, xerophthalmia


Ocular toxicity including keratitis, blepharitis, xerophthalmia, conjunctival redness, blurred vision, visual impairment, ocular pruritus, and uveitis can occur with amivantamab; hyaluronidase. Ocular toxicity occurred in 16% or fewer patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab across clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less). Keratitis (0.7%) and uveitis (0.3%) occurred in patients treated with IV amivantamab monotherapy in 1 single-arm trial. Visual impairment (less than 10%) and trichomegaly (less than 10%) were reported in patients treated with IV amivantamab in combination with lazertinib or carboplatin/pemetrexed in 3 clinical trials. Promptly refer patients with new or worsening ocular symptoms to an ophthalmologist. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for ocular adverse reactions.


musculoskeletal pain, weakness


Musculoskeletal pain was reported in 30% to 50% (grade 3 or 4, 3.1% or less) of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab in 4 clinical trials. Serious cases of muscle weakness occurred in at least 2% of patients treated with IV amivantamab monotherapy in 1 single-arm trial.


fatigue


Fatigue occurred in 32% to 51% (grade 3 or 4, 2.3% to 6%) of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab as monotherapy or in combination with other anticancer agents across clinical trials.


edema


Edema occurred in 27% to 43% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% to 2.9%) of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab as monotherapy or in combination with other anticancer agents across clinical trials.


fever


Fever occurred in 12% to 17% of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab as monotherapy or in combination with other anticancer agents across clinical trials.


injection site reaction


Local injection site reactions occurred in 11% of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase in the PALOMA-3 trial.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting


Nausea (21% to 36%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2% or less), vomiting (12% to 25%; grade 3 or 4, 3.3% or less), diarrhea (15% to 31%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5% to 3.1%), and abdominal pain (11% or less; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less) were reported in patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab as monotherapy or in combination with other anticancer agents (e.g., pemetrexed, carboplatin, lazertinib) in clinical trials. Constipation occurred in 22% to 23% of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib or IV amivantamab monotherapy in 2 clinical trials; the incidence was higher in patients treated with IV amivantamab plus carboplatin/pemetrexed or lazertinib (29% to 40%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less). Stomatitis was reported in 36 (grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib in 1 clinical trial, which is similar to the incidence of stomatitis (35% to 43%; grade 3 or 4, 2.3% to 4%) reported in patients treated with IV amivantamab plus other anticancer agents; the incidence was lower (26%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%) in patients treated with IV amivantamab monotherapy in 1 single-arm trial.


anorexia, weight loss


Decreased appetite or anorexia (15% to 36%; grade 3 or 4, 2.6% or less) was reported in patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab (as monotherapy or in combination with anticancer agents) across clinical trials. Additionally, weight loss occurred in 14% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%) of patients treated with IV amivantamab in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin in 1 randomized clinical trial.


dizziness, headache


Dizziness occurred in 14% or fewer patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC who received amivantamab; hyaluronidase or iV amivantamab in clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less). Headache was also reported in 21% or fewer patients in the same population (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less).


bleeding, hemorrhoids


Hemorrhoids occurred in 12% or fewer patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib or IV amivantamab plus lazertinib or carboplatin and pemetrexed in 3 clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 1% or less). Bleeding occurred in 14% to 25% (grade 3 or 4, 1% or less) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC treated with IV amivantamab in 4 clinical trials; bleeding was not reported in patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib in the PALOMA-3 trial.


paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy


Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 19% (grade 3 or 4, 1.5%) of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib in 1 randomized clinical trial; it was also reported in 13% of patients treated with IV amivantamab monotherapy in a separate single-arm trial. Paresthesias occurred in 35% (grade 3 or 4, 1.7%) of patients treated with IV amivantamab in combination with lazertinib in the MARIPOSA trial.


conjunctivitis, infection, sepsis


Infection has been reported in patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab. In 3 clinical trials, the incidence of COVID-19 (21% to 26% vs. 10% to 24%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5% to 2% vs. 1.4% or less) was higher in patients receiving IV amivantamab arm compared to osimertinib or chemotherapy; pneumonia was also more common in the IV amivantamab arm of one of these trials (13% vs. 6%; grade 3 or 4, 5% vs. 1.9%). Pneumonia occurred in 10% of patients treated with IV amivantamab monotherapy in 1 single arm trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.8%). Serious cases of pneumonia occurred in 2.4% of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase in the PALOMA-3 trial. Additional infections that occurred with IV amivantamab treatment included conjunctivitis (11% or less; grade 3 or 4, 0.2% or less) and sepsis (2.3% or less). Fatal cases of pneumonia, sepsis, COVID-19 have occurred in patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab across clinical trials.


anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Hematologic abnormalities including anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia occurred in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who received amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab in clinical trials. Decreases from baseline in lymphocytes were reported in 57% of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib compared with 60% of those who received IV amivantamab plus lazertinib in a randomized clinical trial; severe (grade 3 or 4) decreases in lymphocytes occurred more often in the IV arm (6% vs. 29%). Decreases in lymphocytes occurred in 36% (grade 3 or 4, 8%) of patients treated with IV amivantamab monotherapy and in 61% to 69 (grade 3 or 4, 11% to 28%) of patients who received IV amivantamab plus chemotherapy in clinical trials. Decreases from baseline in platelets (37% to 52%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7% to 2.4%), leukocytes (36% to 38%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5% to 1%), hemoglobin (34% to 47%; grade 3 or 4, 2% to 3.8%), and neutrophils (15% or less; grade 3 or 4, 1.4% or less) occurred in patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase plus lazertinib or IV amivantamab plus lazertinib in 2 clinical trials. Decreases from baseline in leukocytes (89% to 91%; grade 3 or 4, 17% to 42%), neutrophils (74% to 76%; grade 3 or 4, 36% to 49%), and platelets (70% to 74%; grade 3 or 4, 10% to 17%), were more common in patients treated with IV amivantamab plus pemetrexed and carboplatin in 2 other clinical trials.


hypoalbuminemia


Hypoalbuminemia, including decreases from baseline in albumin, occurred in 73% to 92% (grade 3 or 4, 3.8% to 8%) of patients treated with amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab in clinical trials.


elevated hepatic enzymes


Elevated hepatic enzymes occurred in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC who received amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab in clinical trials including increased alkaline phosphatase (42% to 53%; grade 3 or 4, 4.8% or less), increased ALT (38% to 65%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6% to 7%), increased AST (33% to 60%; grade 3 or 4, 3.8% or less), and increased GGT (26% to 39%; grade 3 or 4, 2% to 4%).


hyperglycemia, hypermagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia


Electrolyte abnormalities including hyperglycemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypermagnesemia, hyponatremia, and hypophosphatemia occurred in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC who received amivantamab; hyaluronidase or IV amivantamab in clinical trials including decreases from baseline in corrected calcium (25% to 41%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4% or less), sodium (27% to 55%; grade 3 or 4, 4% to 11%), potassium (22% to 44%; grade 3 or 4, 5% to 11%), magnesium (25% to 39%; grade 3 or 4, 2% or less), and phosphate (33% or less; grade 3 or 4, 8% or less). Increases from baseline in magnesium (12% or less; grade 3 or 4, 2.6% or less), increased creatinine (26% to 46%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less), and increased blood glucose (56% or less; grade 3 or 4, 4% or less) were also reported.


insomnia


Insomnia occurred in 11% or fewer patients treated with IV amivantamab in combination with lazertinib or pemetrexed and carboplatin in 2 clinical trials.


stroke


Fatal cases of stroke (0.5% or less), including cerebrovascular accident and cerebral infarction, were reported in patients treated with IV amivantamab in combination with lazertinib or pemetrexed and carboplatin in 2 clinical trials.


ventricular fibrillation


Fatal ventricular fibrillation occurred in 0.5% of patients treated with IV amivantamab plus pemetrexed and carboplatin in the MARIPOSA trial. Fatal cases of cardiopulmonary arrest and cardiorespiratory arrest were reported in 0.2% or fewer patients treated with IV amivantamab plus lazertinib or pemetrexed and carboplatin in 2 other clinical trials.


acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)


Fatal acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) occurred in 0.2% of patients treated with intravenous amivantamab plus lazertinib in the MARIPOSA trial.


antibody formation


Treatment-emergent anti-amivantamab antibody formation occurred in 3 or 729 patients (0.4%) who received amivantamab; hyaluronidase as monotherapy or in combination with lazertinib in 3 clinical trials; the impact on the pharmacokinetics, safety, and/or efficacy of amivantamab is unknown. Anti-hyaluronidase antibodies developed in 66 patients in these trials (9%); neutralizing antibodies were detected in 2 of the 66 patients with anti-hyaluronidase antibodies (3%). There was no clinically significant effect of anti-hyaluronidase antibodies on the pharmacokinetics, safety, or efficacy of amivantamab; hyaluronidase.


Description

Amivantamab; hyaluronidase-lpuj is a subcutaneous combination of amivantamab, a bispecific epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and MET receptor-directed antibody, and hyaluronidase, an endoglycosidase. It is indicated for the first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in combination with lazertinib for patients with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations or in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin for patients with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations. It is also indicated in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin for locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations with disease progression on or after treatment with an EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, and as monotherapy for locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations in patients with disease progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy. Hypersensitivity, administration-related reactions, and severe dermatologic adverse reactions can occur with amivantamab; hyaluronidase therapy. Premedication to reduce the incidence of administration-related reactions and prophylactic and concomitant medications to reduce the risk of dermatologic adverse reactions are recommended. Amivantamab; hyaluronidase was approved by the FDA in December 2025.

Mechanism Of Action

Amivantamab: Amivantamab is a low-fucose human immunoglobulin G1-based bispecific antibody that binds to the extracellular domains of EGFR and MET. In vitro and in vivo, amivantamab disrupts EGFR and MET signaling functions in mutation models of exon 19 deletions, exon 21 L858R substitutions, and exon 20 insertions through blocking ligand binding or degradation of EGFR and MET. The presence of EGFR and MET on the surface of tumor cells also allows for targeting of these cells for destruction by immune effector cells (e.g., natural killer cells and macrophages) through antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and trogocytosis mechanisms, respectively.
Hyaluronidase: Hyaluronidase increases the permeability of subcutaneous tissue by depolymerizing hyaluronan, a polysaccharide found in the extracellular matrix of subcutaneous tissue. In the doses administered in amivantamab; hyaluronidase, hyaluronidase acts transiently and locally; its effects are reversible and the permeability of subcutaneous tissue is restored within 24 to 48 hours.

Pharmacokinetics

Amivantamab; hyaluronidase is administered subcutaneously. The mean volume of distribution of amivantamab is 5.7 L (CV, 24%). It is cleared by parallel linear and nonlinear saturable target mediated clearances after subcutaneous administration. The mean linear apparent clearance of amivantamab is 0.22 L/day (CV, 26%) and the estimated terminal half-life is 19 days (CV, 34%).
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Subcutaneous Route

Following subcutaneous administration of amivantamab; hyaluronidase, the bioavailability of amivantamab is 67% (CV, 15%) with a median time to Cmax of 3 days. Exposure increases in a dose-proportional manner. Amivantamab exposure following subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase and IV amivantamab were comparable, with the geometric mean ratio (GMR) AUC and steady-state Cmin for the every-2-week regimen of 1.03 and 1.43, respectively; for the every-3-week regimen was 1.2 and 1.32, respectively; and for the every-4-week regimen was 1.2 and 1.01, respectively.
The maximum trough concentration is typically observed at the end of the weekly dosing (Cycle 2, Week 1), with steady-state reached by approximately week 13. For every-2-week dosing (1,600 mg amivantamab/20,000 units hyaluronidase or 2,240 mg amivantamab/28,000 units hyaluronidase), the steady-state geometric mean Cmin of amivantamab is 206 mcg/mL (CV, 39%) while the maximum trough concentration was 335 mcg/mL (CV, 33%). For every-3-week dosing (2,400 mg amivantamab/30,000 units hyaluronidase or 3,360 mg amivantamab/42,000 units hyaluronidase), the steady-state geometric mean Cmin of amivantamab is 218 mcg/mL (CV, 42%) while the maximum trough concentration was 464 mcg/mL (CV, 24%). For every-4-week dosing (3,520 mg amivantamab/44,000 units hyaluronidase or 4,640 mg amivantamab/58,000 units hyaluronidase), the steady-state geometric mean Cmin of amivantamab is 129 mcg/mL (CV, 52%) while the maximum trough concentration was 350 mcg/mL (CV, 31%). The AUC 1-week accumulation was 3.5-fold for every-2-week dosing, 4.5-fold for every-3-week dosing, and 4.8-fold for every-4-week dosing.

Hepatic Impairment

Mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin less than or equal to the upper limit of normal [ULN] and AST greater than ULN; or total bilirubin greater than ULN but less than or equal to 1.5 times ULN) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab. The effect of moderate to severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin 1.5 times ULN or more) on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab is unknown.

Renal Impairment

Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab. The effect of severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/min) on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab is unknown.

Geriatric

Age (28 to 85 years) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab.

Gender Differences

Sex does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab.

Ethnic Differences

Race and ethnicity do not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab.

Obesity

Increased body weight increases the volume of distribution and clearance of amivantamab. Amivantamab exposure at the various recommended doses and schedules was comparable between patients who weighed less than 80 kg and those who weighed 80 kg or more.

Other

Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status, history of brain metastases, baseline albumin level (26 to 51 g/L), and EGFR primary mutation type do not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
Premedication
Diphenhydramine 25 mg to 50 mg (or equivalent) and acetaminophen 650 mg to 1,000 mg IV given 15 to 30 minutes prior to each dose; alternatively, oral diphenhydramine and acetaminophen may be given 30 to 60 minutes prior to administration.
Week 1, day 1, additionally premedicate with dexamethasone 20 mg IV (or equivalent) 45 to 60 minutes before amivantamab administration; alternatively, oral dexamethasone may be given at least 60 minutes prior to the initial dose. This may be repeated at the next subsequent dose in the event of an administration-related reaction.
Dexamethasone 10 mg (or equivalent) IV (45 to 60 minutes) or PO (at least 60 minutes) prior to subsequent doses as necessary. 
Following prolonged dose interruptions, restart the Week 1, day 1 dexamethasone premedication.
Prophylactic and Concomitant Medications
To reduce the risk of dermatologic adverse events:
Administer an oral antibiotic (doxycycline or minocycline 100 mg PO twice daily) starting on Day 1 and continuing for the first 12 weeks of treatment.
After completion of oral antibiotic prophylaxis, administer antibiotic lotion to the scalp (clindamycin 1% topical once daily) for the next 9 months of treatment.
Wash hands and feet with 4% chlorhexidine solution once daily.
Administer non-comedogenic skin moisturizer (ceramide-based or other formulations that provide long-lasting skin hydration and exclude drying agents) on the face and whole body, except scalp.
To reduce the risk of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) when given in combination with lazertinib:
Administer VTE prophylaxis for the first 4 months of treatment. If there are no signs or symptoms of VTE during the first 4 months of treatment, anticoagulation may be discontinued at the discretion of the healthcare provider.
Patient Counseling
Limit sun exposure during and for 2 months after treatment; patients should wear protective clothing and use broad-spectrum UVA/UVB sunscreen.


Injectable Administration

Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Subcutaneous Administration


Amivantamab; hyaluronidase is for subcutaneous administration only; do not administer intravenously.
Amivantamab; hyaluronidase has different dosage and administration than IV amivantamab products. Ensure the correct formulation is being used prior to preparation. Do not substitute amivantamab; hyaluronidase for or with IV amivantamab.
Amivantamab; hyaluronidase dosing should be based on the patient's baseline weight. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes.
Missed dose, every-2-week or every-4-week schedule: If a dose is missed during weeks 1, 2, 3, or 4 of an every-2-week schedule, administer the missed dose within 24 hours. From week 5 onward, missed doses may be administered within 7 days of the due date. If the missed dose is not administered during this timeframe, skip the missed dose and administer the next dose per the usual dosing schedule.
Missed dose, every-3-week schedule: If a dose is missed during weeks 1, 2, or 3 of an every-3-week schedule, administer the missed dose within 24 hours. From week 4 onward, missed doses may be administered within 7 days of the due date. If the missed dose is not administered during this timeframe, skip the missed dose and administer the next dose per the usual dosing schedule.
Changing from IV amivantamab to subcutaneous amivantamab; hyaluronidase: Patients on an every-2-week IV regimen may switch to an every-2-week or every-4-week subcutaneous regimen at the next scheduled dose on or after Week 5. Patients on an every-3-week IV regimen may switch to an every-3-week subcutaneous regimen at the next scheduled dose on or after Week 4.
Preparation
Allow the appropriate number of amivantamab; hyaluronidase vial(s) to come to room temperature for at least 15 minutes. Do not warm in any other way. Do not shake.
Withdraw the required volume of amivantamab; hyaluronidase from the vial(s) into a syringe(s) using a transfer needle. Do not dilute amivantamab; hyaluronidase.
1,600 mg amivantamab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase: 10 mL
2,240 mg amivantamab and 28,000 units hyaluronidase: 14 mL
2,400 mg amivantamab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase: 15 mL
3,360 mg amivantamab and 42,000 units hyaluronidase: 21 mL divided equally between 2 syringes (maximum syringe volume, 15 mL)
3,520 mg amivantamab and 44,000 units hyaluronidase: 22 mL divided equally between 2 syringes (maximum syringe volume, 15 mL)
4,640 mg amivantamab and 58,000 units hyaluronidase: 29 mL. For this dose volume, use one 2,240 mg amivantamab/28,000 units hyaluronidase vial (14 mL) and one 2,400 mg amivantamab/30,000 units hyaluronidase vial (15 mL) to minimize waste. If a different combination of vials is used, discard the unused portion.
Storage of prepared syringe(s): If immediate administration is not possible, store prepared syringe(s) refrigerated at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F) for up to 24 hours followed by room temperature at 15 to 30 degrees C (59 to 86 degrees F) for up to 24 hours.
Subcutaneous Injection
If refrigerated, allow the syringe(s) to come to room temperature.
Administer amivantamab; hyaluronidase immediately using a 21G to 23G needle or infusion set.
Amivantamab; hyaluronidase is compatible with stainless steel injection needles, polypropylene and polycarbonate syringes, and polyethylene, polyurethane, and polyvinylchloride subcutaneous infusion sets.
Administer each injection of amivantamab; hyaluronidase subcutaneously into the abdomen over approximately 5 minutes to minimize injection site irritation. If more than 1 injection is required (for volumes greater than 15 mL), administer each injection consecutively over approximately 5 minutes in separate quadrants of the abdomen.
Do not inject into tattoos, scars, or areas where the skin is red, bruised, tender, hard, not intact, or within 2 inches (5 cm) around the periumbilical area.
If pain occurs, pause or slow the injection. If this does not relieve the pain, a second injection site may be chosen on the opposite side of the abdomen to deliver the remainder of the dose.
If a subcutaneous infusion set is used, flush the line with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection after administration.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

80 kg or more: 4,640 mg amivantamab and 58,000 units hyaluronidase.
Less than 80 kg: 3,520 mg amivantamab and 44,000 units hyaluronidase.

Geriatric

80 kg or more: 4,640 mg amivantamab and 58,000 units hyaluronidase.
Less than 80 kg: 3,520 mg amivantamab and 44,000 units hyaluronidase.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Rybrevant Faspro 1,600mg-20,000units/10mL Solution for Injection

Rybrevant Faspro 2,240mg-28,000units/14mL Solution for Injection

Rybrevant Faspro 2,400mg-30,000units/15mL Solution for Injection

Rybrevant Faspro 3,520mg-44,000units/22mL Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier