=== ALPRAZolam — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 16)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alprazolam is an oral benzodiazepine used in adults for the treatment of panic disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and the short-term relief of anxiety symptoms.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): abnormal dreams, agitation, anxiety, confusion, depression, euphoria, hallucinations, hostility, impulse control symptoms, irritability, mania, nightmares, restlessness, suicidal ideation, akathisia, ataxia, complex sleep-related behaviors, dizziness, dysarthria, dyskinesia, dysphonia, headache, hypoesthesia, impaired cognition, insomnia, libido decrease, libido increase, paresthesias, syncope, tremor

In an Overdose: Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression... Respiratory depression can occur with benzodiazepine therapy, particularly with misuse, coadministration with other CNS depressants, or overdosage.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Alprazolam is also contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to other benzodiazepines.

ALPRAZOLAM

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Niravam, Xanax, Xanax XR

Indication Specific Dosing

General dosing and discontinuation recommendations
The risks and benefits of ongoing benzodiazepine use should be assessed every 3 months or as clinically indicated.
Those who are candidates for discontinuation should be assessed for risks of withdrawal prior to stopping the medication; individuals who are likely to be physically dependent on the benzodiazepine should be tapered off the medication rather than having an abrupt discontinuation. While most tapers can be managed outpatient, patients at imminent risk of harm related to continued use (e.g., drug interactions, falls, or overdose), those with concomitant physical or mental health conditions that may complicate the safe tapering, and those with current or anticipated severe or complicated withdrawals may require inpatient care.
Tapering strategies should be patient-specific and may be adjusted as needed to address withdrawal symptoms. Initial dose reductions of 5% are recommended, with an assessment of tolerability made. In general, the pace of benzodiazepine tapering should include dose reductions of 5% to 10% every 2 to 4 weeks and should not exceed 25% every 2 weeks.
Individuals at risk of physical dependence, such as those taking a higher dose for more than a year, may require a conservative taper of 5% to 10% every 6 to 8 weeks or slower, depending on symptoms. Those with lower risks of physical dependence or who tolerate the initial dose reduction may be able to reduce the dose by 10% to 25% every 2 to 4 weeks.
If withdrawal symptoms occur and interfere with the taper (e.g., sleep difficulty or anxiety), the taper may be paused or further slowed. Adjunctive medications may also be considered.


For the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), including for the acute treatment of anxiety symptoms due to GAD

Oral dosage (immediate-release)
Adults


0.25 to 0.5 mg PO 3 times per day, initially. Use the lower dose for debilitated adults. If clinically indicated, increase as tolerated at intervals of 3 to 4 days. Use the lowest effective dose. Max: 4 mg/day in divided doses. If discontinuation becomes necessary, the manufacturer suggests that the daily dose be decreased by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. Some patients may require a more gradual and individualized taper.


Geriatric Adults


0.25 mg PO 2 or 3 times daily is the initial and usual recommended dose range. Some older adults may need a lower initial dosage. If clinically indicated, may increase dose gradually if tolerated. Use the lowest effective dose. Geriatric adults are more sensitive to the benzodiazepines. Adult Max: 4 mg/day in divided doses. If discontinuation becomes necessary, the manufacturer suggests that the daily dose be decreased by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. Some patients may require a more gradual and individualized taper.


For the treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia

Oral dosage (immediate-release)
Adults


0.5 mg PO 3 times per day, initially. Lower initial doses may be appropriate for some patients. If clinically indicated, may increase gradually as tolerated, by no more than 1 mg/day at intervals of 3 to 4 days. In controlled trials, the mean effective total dosage was 5 to 6 mg/day, with occasional patients requiring up to 10 mg/day in divided doses. For patients receiving doses greater than 4 mg/day, periodically reassess and consider dose reduction. In a controlled postmarketing study, patients treated with doses of 4 mg/day or more for 3 months were able to taper to 50% of their total maintenance dose without apparent loss of clinical benefit. The necessary duration of treatment for panic disorder in patients is unknown. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. If dose reduction or discontinuation becomes necessary, decrease the daily dose by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days to minimize the risk of withdrawal reactions. Some patients may require a more gradual and individualized taper.


Older Adults


0.25 mg PO 2 or 3 times daily, initially. Lower initial doses may be appropriate for some patients. May increase gradually if needed and tolerated, at intervals of 3 to 4 days. Geriatric adults are more sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines; use the lowest effective dose. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. If dose reduction or discontinuation becomes necessary, decrease the daily dose by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days to minimize the risk of withdrawal reactions. Some patients may require a more gradual and individualized taper.


Oral dosage (extended-release tablets, e.g., Xanax XR)
Adults


0.5 to 1 mg PO once daily, initially. Increase by no more than 1 mg/day at intervals of every 3 to 4 days as needed and tolerated. Mean effective dosage range: 3 to 6 mg PO once daily. Up to 10 mg/day has been required in occasional patients. Use the lowest effective dose. To switch from immediate-release alprazolam, calculate the total daily dose and administer once daily using the XR formulation. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. If discontinuation becomes necessary, decrease the daily dose by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. Some patients may require a more gradual and individualized taper.


Older Adults


0.5 mg PO once daily, initially. Gradually increase as needed and tolerated. In younger adults, doses were increased in increments of 1 mg/day or less, at intervals of every 3 to 4 days. Geriatric adults are more sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines; use the lowest effective dose. To switch from immediate-release alprazolam, calculate the total daily dose and administer once daily using the XR formulation. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. If discontinuation becomes necessary, decrease the daily dose by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. Some patients may require a more gradual and individualized taper.


For the treatment of anxiety and mood-symptoms associated with premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD)† that is unresponsive to non-pharmacologic or preferred therapy

Oral dosage (immediate-release)
Adults


Safety and efficacy not established; not FDA-approved. Luteal phase dosing of 0.25 mg PO twice daily, up to 0.5 mg PO 3 times daily, may be effective. In some studies, the dosage was tapered by 25% per day through menses. However, consensus guidelines state that alprazolam has limited use for PMDD and is not considered a first-line treatment; SSRI and SNRI agents are generally preferred.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Alprazolam is also contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to other benzodiazepines. While serious benzodiazepine hypersensitivity is rare, some case reports suggest cross-reactivity is possible, particularly if agents share the same metabolites.

depression, suicidal ideation


Benzodiazepines may worsen depression. Panic disorder has been associated with primary and secondary major depressive disorders and increased reports of suicide and suicidal ideation among untreated patients. Appropriate precautions (e.g., limiting the total prescription size and increased monitoring for suicidal ideation) should be considered in patients with depression.


coadministration with certain medications, pulmonary disease, respiratory insufficiency


Deaths have been reported in people with severe pulmonary disease after initiation of alprazolam; closely monitor patients with impaired respiratory function (respiratory insufficiency). If signs and symptoms of respiratory depression, hypoventilation, or apnea occur, discontinue alprazolam. Also, alprazolam coadministration with certain medications, such as opioids, may result in serious adverse effects, including profound sedation, CNS depression, respiratory depression, coma, and death. The concomitant use of these medications has demonstrated an increased risk of drug-related mortality compared to the use of opioids alone. The combined use of opioids and benzodiazepines should be reserved for people in whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If the decision is made to prescribe alprazolam concomitantly with opioids, the lowest effective dose should be prescribed for the shortest duration of use, and the patient should be followed closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Advise patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when alprazolam is used with opioids. Due to the risks associated with concomitant use, the ASAM clinical practice guidelines suggest re-evaluation of the risks and benefits of continued benzodiazepine prescribing in patients taking opioids at least every 3 months or with every related clinical encounter or prescription renewal, whichever is more frequent.


abrupt discontinuation, increased risk for benzodiazepine withdrawal, substance abuse disorder


The use of benzodiazepines, including alprazolam, exposes users to serious adverse events, including risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which can increase the frequency of serious adverse outcomes. Before prescribing and throughout treatment, assess each patient's risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction using a standardized screening tool. Counsel patients about the risks and proper use of alprazolam and prescribe the lowest effective dose to reduce excess exposure and advise patients on proper disposal of unused medication. Minimize the concomitant use of CNS depressants or other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants). If a substance abuse disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute or refer them for early treatment. Chronic, continued use of benzodiazepines may also lead to physical benzodiazepine dependence. The risk of dependence increases with longer treatment duration and higher daily doses and may lead to an increased risk for benzodiazepine withdrawal upon discontinuation. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dose reduction can precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening. To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual, patient-specific taper to reduce the dose or discontinue alprazolam. In some cases, patients using benzodiazepines have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months. Clinicians should be aware that the use of flumazenil may increase the risk of seizures, particularly in long-term users of benzodiazepines.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Alprazolam has the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Individuals should use caution when driving or operating machinery or participating in other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they know how alprazolam may affect them. Some patients may experience excessive sedation and impaired ability to perform tasks. Given the primary CNS effects of alprazolam, use caution during coadministration with other CNS depressants. Alcohol may further impair cognitive and motor skills and can increase the risk of serious CNS or respiratory depression and alcohol should be avoided during alprazolam treatment.


alcohol-related liver disease, hepatic failure


Use alprazolam with caution in people with alcohol-related liver disease or hepatic failure or impairment. Decreased clearance of alprazolam and a longer elimination half-life have been observed in these populations. Dosage reduction of alprazolam is recommended in people with hepatic impairment.


renal failure


Use alprazolam with caution in the presence of end-stage renal disease (renal failure), including patients on dialysis. Initiate treatment at the low end of the dosage range and carefully titrate while monitoring for adverse CNS effects. Although alprazolam is extensively metabolized in the liver, alprazolam and its metabolites are excreted primarily in the urine. Increased levels of free alprazolam have been reported in patients receiving hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis compared to healthy controls.


myasthenia gravis


Alprazolam should be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis, particularly at higher doses. These patients may be more sensitive to the CNS and respiratory effects of benzodiazepines.


acute angle-closure glaucoma


The use of alprazolam orally disintegrating tablets is contraindicated in people with acute angle-closure glaucoma as it may exacerbate narrow-angle closure. Alprazolam may be used in people with open-angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy. While not listed as a contraindication or precaution in other dosage form labels, epidemiologic data suggest that use of other formulations of alprazolam should be used with caution in acute angle-closure glaucoma.


geriatric


Alprazolam should be used cautiously in geriatric adults since they are more sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines; lower initial doses and slower titration are recommended. Because alprazolam can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, there is a higher risk of falls, particularly in the elderly, with the potential for subsequent severe injuries. The Beers Criteria state that benzodiazepines are potentially inappropriate medications in geriatric adults with a history of delirium, dementia, or a history of falls or fractures; benzodiazepines increase the risk of cognitive impairment, delirium, falls, fractures, and motor vehicle accidents in older adults and avoidance is generally recommended, with some exceptions for severe generalized anxiety disorder and other approved indications. If a benzodiazepine must be used, consider reducing the use of other CNS-active medications and implement other strategies to reduce fall risk. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates anxiolytic and sedative/hypnotic use in long-term care facilities. When a drug is used to induce sleep, treat a sleep disorder, manage behavior, stabilize mood, or treat a psychiatric disorder, tapering as outlined in the OBRA guidelines should be attempted unless clinically contraindicated. Dosages and durations of treatment used should align with prescribing labels, published literature recommendations, and expert guidelines.


pregnancy


Published data from observational studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide use. However, more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, adjusted for confounding exposures to other substances, have not confirmed these findings. Benzodiazepines cross the placenta. Neonates exposed to benzodiazepines during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, may experience symptoms of sedation. Those with prolonged exposure during late pregnancy may experience withdrawal after delivery. The incidence, time to onset, and duration of sedation and withdrawal are multifactorial (e.g., duration of use, drug lipophilicity, placental disposition, degree of accumulation in neonatal tissues). Individuals who become pregnant or intend to become pregnant while taking alprazolam should be advised to discuss the possibility of discontinuing the drug with their physician. If a benzodiazepine is required during pregnancy, avoid first trimester administration if possible, consider short-acting agents, limit treatment to the shortest possible duration and lowest effective dose, and discontinue the drug well before delivery.  There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to alprazolam or other psychiatric medications during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychiatric Medications at 1-866-961-2388 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/.


phenylketonuria


People with phenylketonuria should be informed that some alprazolam orally disintegrating tablets (ODTs) may contain aspartame, a source of phenylalanine.


neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Monitor neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero for symptoms of withdrawal, such as hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties. In neonates exposed during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, monitor for sedation, including respiratory depression, lethargy, and hypotonia. If symptoms are present, manage accordingly.


breast-feeding


Use alprazolam with caution during breast-feeding. Although alprazolam is often considered a preferred benzodiazepine during lactation, there is potential for serious adverse reactions in the breast-fed child. Monitor exposed children for excessive sedation, slowed breathing rate, poor feeding, and inadequate weight gain. Withdrawal may occur in those with long-term exposure to the drug. This may occur with cessation of breast-feeding or cessation of the medication in the breast-feeding person. The estimated dose that a breast-fed child would receive, based on breast milk concentrations after single oral doses of 0.5 mg in a lactating individual, has been reported to be 0.5 to 5 mcg/kg/day or approximately 3% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose.  


Pregnancy And Lactation


Published data from observational studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide use. However, more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, adjusted for confounding exposures to other substances, have not confirmed these findings. Benzodiazepines cross the placenta. Neonates exposed to benzodiazepines during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, may experience symptoms of sedation. Those with prolonged exposure during late pregnancy may experience withdrawal after delivery. The incidence, time to onset, and duration of sedation and withdrawal are multifactorial (e.g., duration of use, drug lipophilicity, placental disposition, degree of accumulation in neonatal tissues). Individuals who become pregnant or intend to become pregnant while taking alprazolam should be advised to discuss the possibility of discontinuing the drug with their physician. If a benzodiazepine is required during pregnancy, avoid first trimester administration if possible, consider short-acting agents, limit treatment to the shortest possible duration and lowest effective dose, and discontinue the drug well before delivery.  There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to alprazolam or other psychiatric medications during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychiatric Medications at 1-866-961-2388 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at one-third to one-half the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including anticonvulsants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alprazolam and adagrasib is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with adagrasib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amiodarone due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amiodarone, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and amiodarone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
amLODIPine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Amoxapine may enhance the response to the effects of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants. Patients should be warned of the possibility of drowsiness that may impair performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving an automobile or operating machinery.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of clarithromycin and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with clarithromycin, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. There have been post-marketing reports of central nervous system (CNS) effects (e.g., somnolence and confusion) with the concomitant use of clarithromycin. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the CYP450 system, such as alprazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of alprazolam toxicity during coadministration with a multi-day aprepitant or fosaprepitant regimen; consider dose reduction of alprazolam if clinically appropriate. No dosage adjustment is needed for a single dose of aprepitant (40 mg) or fosaprepitant (150 mg). Alprazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant and fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer when used in multi-day regimens.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Asciminib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and asciminib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with asciminib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the CYP450 system, such as alprazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at one-third to one-half the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of atazanavir and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with atazanavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of atazanavir and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with atazanavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with cobicistat, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and avacopan due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with avacopan, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Belumosudil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and belumosudil due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with belumosudil, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If benzhydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benztropine: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of benztropine.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and berotralstat due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with berotralstat, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Bicalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and bicalutamide due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with bicalutamide, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and bicalutamide is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and lenacapavir due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with lenacapavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Brexanolone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of brexanolone with CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines may increase the likelihood or severity of adverse reactions related to sedation and additive CNS depression. Monitor for excessive sedation, dizziness, and a potential for loss of consciousness during brexanolone use.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of brexpiprazole, caution should be used when brexpiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including benzodiazepines and other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brimonidine; Brinzolamide: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated for pain in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. Reduce injectable buprenorphine dose by 1/2, and for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start therapy with the 5 mcg/hour patch. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. In patients treated with buprenorphine for opioid use disorder, cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases. Consider alternatives to benzodiazepines for conditions such as anxiety or insomnia in patients receiving buprenorphine maintenance treatment. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated for pain in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. Reduce injectable buprenorphine dose by 1/2, and for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start therapy with the 5 mcg/hour patch. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. In patients treated with buprenorphine for opioid use disorder, cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases. Consider alternatives to benzodiazepines for conditions such as anxiety or insomnia in patients receiving buprenorphine maintenance treatment. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, including buspirone, can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. It is common for patients to overlap anxiety treatment when switching from benzodiazepines to buspirone. Buspirone has a slow onset of action and the drug will not block the withdrawal syndrome often seen with cessation of benzodiazepine therapy in those with benzodiazepine dependence. Therefore, before starting therapy with buspirone, withdraw patients gradually from the benzodiazepine. Alternatively, conversion to buspirone therapy may require treatment overlap to allow for the downward titration of the benzodiazepine while buspirone takes effect.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and alprazolam. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and capivasertib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with capivasertib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and capivasertib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with carbamazepine is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. The oral clearance of alprazolam (given in a 0.8 mg single dose) increased from 0.9 +/- 21 mL/minute/kg to 2.13 +/- 0.54 mL/minute/kg and the elimination half-life was shortened from 17.1 +/- 4.9 hours to 7.7 +/- 1.7 hours following administration of 300 mg per day carbamazepine for 10 days. However, the carbamazepine dose used in this study was low compared to the recommended doses (1000-1200 mg per day); the effect at usual carbamazepine doses is unknown.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of cariprazine, caution should be used when cariprazine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including benzodiazepines and other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ceritinib and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ceritinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of chloramphenicol and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with chloramphenicol, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Cimetidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and cimetidine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with cimetidine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and cimetidine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with cimetidine increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ciprofloxacin due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ciprofloxacin may be a CYP3A4 inhibitor but in vivo data are conflicting. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of clarithromycin and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with clarithromycin, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. There have been post-marketing reports of central nervous system (CNS) effects (e.g., somnolence and confusion) with the concomitant use of clarithromycin. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
cloBAZam: (Major) Use clobazam with other benzodiazepines with caution due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, such as clonazepam, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Clonidine has CNS depressive effects and can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) If concurrent therapy with clozapine and a benzodiazepine is necessary, it is advisable to begin with the lowest possible benzodiazepine dose and closely monitor the patient, particularly at initiation of treatment and following dose increases. Although the combination has been used safely, adverse reactions such as confusion, ataxia, somnolence, delirium, collapse, cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, and death have occurred rarely in patients receiving clozapine concurrently or following benzodiazepine therapy. Several benzodiazepines, including clonazepam, oxazepam, flurazepam, diazepam, clobazam, flunitrazepam, and lorazepam have been implicated in these reactions. At least one case of sudden death was reported following intravenous administration of lorazepam to a patient receiving clozapine.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with cobicistat, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and cocaine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with cocaine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and cocaine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
COMT inhibitors: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and conivaptan due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with conivaptan, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and crizotinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with crizotinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and cyclosporine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with cyclosporine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Major) Coadministration of alprazolam and dalfopristin; quinupristin is not recommended. If coadministration cannot be avoided, a dosage reduction of alprazolam should be considered. Dalfopristin; quinupristin is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. The initial step in alprazolam metabolism is hydroxylation catalyzed by cytochrome CYP3A. Drugs that inhibit this metabolic pathway may profoundly decrease alprazolam clearance, resulting in increased potential for serious alprazolam-related adverse events, such as respiratory depression and prolonged sedation. Consequently, alprazolam should be avoided in patients receiving very potent inhibitors of CYP3A isoenzymes.
Danazol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and danazol due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with danazol, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and danazol is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and daridorexant due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with daridorexant, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and daridorexant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of darunavir and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with darunavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with cobicistat, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of darunavir and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with darunavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with cobicistat, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of darunavir and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with darunavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Desipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as alprazolam, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dexmedetomidine and benzodiazepines may result in additive CNS depression. A reduction in dosage of dexmedetomidine or the benzodiazepine may be required.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, such as diazepam, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Dicyclomine can cause drowsiness, so it should be used cautiously in patients receiving CNS depressants like benzodiazepines.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Monitor serum digoxin concentrations during concomitant alprazolam use. Alprazolam may increase digoxin concentrations by increasing digoxin plasma protein binding and/or affecting the renal tubules resulting in decreased digoxin clearance.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and diltiazem due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with diltiazeml, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Disulfiram can decrease the hepatic oxidative metabolism of alprazolam if administered concomitantly. Patients receiving alprazolam therapy should be monitored for signs of altered benzodiazepine response when disulfiram is initiated or discontinued.
Doxepin: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if the use of benzodiazepines are necessary with dronabinol, and monitor for additive dizziness, confusion, somnolence, and other CNS effects.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and dronedarone due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with dronedarone, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes. In December 2001, the FDA issued a black box warning regarding the use of droperidol and its association with QT prolongation and potential for cardiac arrhythmias based on post-marketing surveillance data. Risk factors for the development of prolonged QT syndrome may include the use of benzodiazepines. Also, droperidol and benzodiazepines can both cause CNS depression. If used with a benzodiazepine, droperidol should be initiated at a low dose and adjusted upward, with caution, as needed to achieve the desired effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and duvelisib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with duvelisib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) In vivo, efavirenz has been shown to induce hepatic enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. Patients receiving benzodiazepines that are metabolized by these isoenzymes may experience decreased benzodiazepine serum concentrations if administered concurrently with efavirenz. Efavirenz should be used with caution with oxidized benzodiazepines including alprazolam. Monitor patients closely for excessive side effects.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) In vivo, efavirenz has been shown to induce hepatic enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. Patients receiving benzodiazepines that are metabolized by these isoenzymes may experience decreased benzodiazepine serum concentrations if administered concurrently with efavirenz. Efavirenz should be used with caution with oxidized benzodiazepines including alprazolam. Monitor patients closely for excessive side effects.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) In vivo, efavirenz has been shown to induce hepatic enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. Patients receiving benzodiazepines that are metabolized by these isoenzymes may experience decreased benzodiazepine serum concentrations if administered concurrently with efavirenz. Efavirenz should be used with caution with oxidized benzodiazepines including alprazolam. Monitor patients closely for excessive side effects.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and grazoprevir due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with grazoprevir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ivacaftor due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ivacaftor, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and elinzanetant due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with elinzanetant, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with cobicistat, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with cobicistat, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with encorafenib is necessary. Concomitant use can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alprazolam and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ensitrelvir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with enzalutamide is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and erythromycin due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with erythromycin, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with erythromycin increased alprazolam exposure by 1.61-fold.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with eszopiclone can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. The concurrent use of eszopiclone with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics at bedtime or in the middle of the night is not recommended. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including anticonvulsants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Everolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and everolimus due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with everolimus, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and everolimus is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and fedratinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with fedratinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Felbamate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including anticonvulsants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and fexinidazole due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with fexinidazole, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Finerenone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and fluconazole due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with fluconazole, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Flumazenil: (Major) Flumazenil competes with benzodiazepines for binding at the GABA/benzodiazepine-receptor complex, the specific binding site of benzodiazepines. Because binding at the receptor is competitive and flumazenil has a much shorter duration of action than do most benzodiazepines, it is possible for the effects of flumazenil to dissipate sooner than the effects of the benzodiazepine. Flumazenil does not affect the pharmacokinetics of the benzodiazepines. Abrupt awakening can cause dysphoria, agitation, and possibly increased adverse effects. If administered to patients who have received a benzodiazepine chronically, abrupt interruption of benzodiazepine agonism by flumazenil can induce benzodiazepine withdrawal including seizures. Flumazenil has minimal effects on benzodiazepine-induced respiratory depression; suitable ventilatory support should be available, especially in treating acute benzodiazepine overdose. Flumazenil does not reverse the actions of barbiturates, opiate agonists, or tricyclic antidepressants.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and fluoxetine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Coadministration of alprazolam and fluoxetine has resulted in increased alprazolam plasma concentrations and in further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased alprazolam levels. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with fluoxetine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluoxetine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Norfluoxetine, the active metabolite of fluoxetine, is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with fluoxetine increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 46%, decreased clearance by 21%, increased half-life by 17%, and decreased measured psychomotor performance.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and fluvoxamine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with fluvoxamine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with fluvoxamine increased alprazolam exposure by 1.96-fold.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and fosamprenavir due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with fosamprenavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with hydantoins is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and fostamatinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with fostamatinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Gabapentin: (Major) Concomitant use of benzodiazepines with gabapentin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and gepotidacin due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with gepotidacin, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and gepotidacin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Givinostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and givinostat due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with givinostat, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and givinostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during alprazolam treatment due to the risk for increased alprazolam exposure and adverse reactions. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Guanfacine has been associated with sedative effects and can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Mild to moderate increases in haloperidol plasma concentrations have been reported during concurrent use of haloperidol and CYP3A4 substrates such as alprazolam. Until more data are available, it is advisable to closely monitor for adverse events when alprazolam is coadministered with haloperidol. Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs including antipsychotics can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with hydantoins is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydromorphone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce the initial dosage of hydromorphone and titrate to clinical response; for hydromorphone extended-release tablets, use 1/3 to 1/2 of the estimated hydromorphone starting dose. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of idelalisib and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with idelalisib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when iloperidone is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and imatinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with imatinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Imipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and isavuconazonium due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with isavuconazonium, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and isoniazid due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with isoniazid, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and isoniazid is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Istradefylline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and istradefylline due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with istradefylline, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and istradefylline is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of itraconazole and alprazolam is contraindicated. Itraconazole significantly impairs the CYP3A4 metabolism of alprazolam, resulting in significantly elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. When a single dose of alprazolam was administered to healthy patients receiving itraconazole, the mean AUC and half-live of alprazolam were increased 2.7 fold. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with itraconazole, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized.
Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ivacaftor due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ivacaftor, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ketoconazole and alprazolam is contraindicated. Ketoconazole significantly impairs the CYP3A4 metabolism of alprazolam, resulting in significantly elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Ketoconazole is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ketoconazole, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including anticonvulsants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including anticonvulsants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of clarithromycin and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with clarithromycin, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. There have been post-marketing reports of central nervous system (CNS) effects (e.g., somnolence and confusion) with the concomitant use of clarithromycin. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and lapatinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with lapatinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and lapatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and larotrectinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with larotrectinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and larotrectinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lazertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and lazertinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with lazertinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and oral lefamulin due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. An interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with lefamulin, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during use of lemborexant with benzodiazepines. Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. Use of more than 2 hypnotics should be avoided due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with lemborexant, a reduction in dose of one or both agents may be needed. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and lenacapavir due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with lenacapavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and letermovir due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Coadministration is not recommended if the patient is also receiving cyclosporine, because the magnitude of the interaction may be increased. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with letermovir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent administration with other moderate to strong inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.61- to 3.98-fold.
Levamlodipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
levETIRAcetam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including anticonvulsants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ketoconazole and alprazolam is contraindicated. Ketoconazole significantly impairs the CYP3A4 metabolism of alprazolam, resulting in significantly elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Ketoconazole is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ketoconazole, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If levorphanol is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce the initial dose of levorphanol by approximately 50% or more. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and benzodiazepines. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines.
Lomitapide: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and alprazolam may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Alprazolam is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with lonafarnib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ritonavir due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration of alprazolam and ritonavir is necessary, reduce alprazolam to half of the recommended dosage when a patient is started on ritonavir and alprazolam together, or when ritonavir administered to a patient treated with alprazolam. Increase the alprazolam dosage to the target dose after 10 to 14 days of dosing ritonavir and alprazolam together. It is not necessary to reduce alprazolam dose in patients who have been taking ritonavir for more than 10 to 14 days. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ritonavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Short-term low doses of ritonavir (4 doses of 200 mg) increased mean AUC of alprazolam by about 2.5-fold, and did not significantly affect Cmax of alprazolam. The elimination half-life of alprazolam was prolonged (30 hours vs. 13 hours). Upon extended exposure to ritonavir (500 mg, twice daily for 10 days), CYP3A induction offset this inhibition. Alprazolam AUC and Cmax was reduced by 12% and 16%, respectively, in the presence of ritonavir. The elimination half-life of alprazolam was not significantly changed.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, such as lorazepam, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including antipsychotics, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ivacaftor due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ivacaftor, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of lurasidone, caution should be used when lurasidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including benzodiazepines. In one study, co-administration of lurasidone and midazolam increased the Cmax and AUC of midazolam by about 21% and 44%, respectively, compared to midazolam alone; however, dosage adjustment of midazolam based upon pharmacokinetic parameters is not required during concurrent use of lurasidone.
Maribavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and maribavir due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with maribavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and mavorixafor due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with mavorixafor, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Melatonin: (Major) Use caution when combining melatonin with the benzodiazepines; when the benzodiazepine is used for sleep, co-use of melatonin should be avoided. Use of more than 1 agent for hypnotic purposes may increase the risk for over-sedation, CNS effects, or sleep-related behaviors. Be alert for unusual changes in moods or behaviors. Use caution when combining melatonin with benzodiazepines for other uses. Patients reporting unusual sleep-related behaviors should likely discontinue melatonin use. In animal studies, melatonin has been shown to increase benzodiazepine binding to receptor sites. In one case report, a benzodiazepine-dependent woman with an 11 year history of insomnia weaned and discontinued her benzodiazepine prescription within a few days without rebound insomnia or apparent benzodiazepine withdrawal when melatonin was given. In another case report, the ingestion of excessive melatonin along with normal doses of chlordiazepoxide and an antidepressant resulted in lethargy and short-term amnestic responses. Both cases suggest additive pharmacodynamic effects. In a clinical trial, there was clear evidence for a transitory pharmacodynamic interaction between melatonin and another hypnotic agent one hour following co-dosing. Concomitant administration resulted in increased impairment of attention, memory and coordination compared to the hypnotic agent alone.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Methadone: (Major) Concurrent use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective dose and minimum duration possible. If methadone is initiated for pain in an opioid-naive patient taking a benzodiazepine, use an initial methadone dose of 2.5 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial benzodiazepine dose and titrate to response. In patients treated with methadone for opioid use disorder, cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases. Consider alternatives to benzodiazepines for conditions such as anxiety or insomnia during methadone maintenance treatment. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Methsuximide: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including anticonvulsants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Methyldopa is associated with sedative effects. Methyldopa can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as barbiturates, benzodiazepines, opiate agonists, or phenothiazines when administered concomitantly.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with benzodiazepines can result in additive sedative effects.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of mifepristone and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with mifepristone, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS-active drugs with milnacipran or levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with these medications.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and mirtazapine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with mitotane is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and mitotane. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Molindone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including antipsychotics, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If morphine is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosages and titrate to clinical response. For extended-release tablets, start with morphine 15 mg PO every 12 hours, and for extended-release capsules, start with 30 mg PO every 24 hours or less. Use an initial morphine; naltrexone dose of 20 mg/0.8 mg PO every 24 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and nefazodone due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with nefazodone, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and nefazodone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with nefazodone increased alprazolam exposure by 1.98-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of nelfinavir and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with nelfinavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and netupitant (or fosnetupitant) due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with netupitant, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Nevirapine: (Minor) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam if coadministration with nevirapine is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease alprazolam exposure. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
NiCARdipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and nicardipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with nicardipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and nicardipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) In patients taking drugs that inhibit CYP3A isoenzymes, use alprazolam with caution and consider alprazolam dose reduction (up to 50% dose reduction may be needed). Niifedipine may theoretically inhibit CYP3A4 metabolism of alprazolam.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and nilotinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with nilotinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ritonavir due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration of alprazolam and ritonavir is necessary, reduce alprazolam to half of the recommended dosage when a patient is started on ritonavir and alprazolam together, or when ritonavir administered to a patient treated with alprazolam. Increase the alprazolam dosage to the target dose after 10 to 14 days of dosing ritonavir and alprazolam together. It is not necessary to reduce alprazolam dose in patients who have been taking ritonavir for more than 10 to 14 days. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ritonavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Short-term low doses of ritonavir (4 doses of 200 mg) increased mean AUC of alprazolam by about 2.5-fold, and did not significantly affect Cmax of alprazolam. The elimination half-life of alprazolam was prolonged (30 hours vs. 13 hours). Upon extended exposure to ritonavir (500 mg, twice daily for 10 days), CYP3A induction offset this inhibition. Alprazolam AUC and Cmax was reduced by 12% and 16%, respectively, in the presence of ritonavir. The elimination half-life of alprazolam was not significantly changed. (Major) Consider withholding alprazolam, if clinically appropriate, during receipt of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir. If this is not feasible, consider using an alternative COVID-19 therapy or reducing the alprazolam dose. However, do not stop alprazolam abruptly or rapidly reduce the dose as this may precipitate an acute withdrawal reaction, especially in patients who have been receiving high doses over an extended period. Coadministration may increase alprazolam exposure resulting in increased toxicity and excessive sedation. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and nirogacestat due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with nirogacestat, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Nitroglycerin: (Minor) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as benzodiazepines. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin is used concurrently with benzodiazepines.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and fluoxetine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Coadministration of alprazolam and fluoxetine has resulted in increased alprazolam plasma concentrations and in further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased alprazolam levels. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with fluoxetine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluoxetine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Norfluoxetine, the active metabolite of fluoxetine, is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with fluoxetine increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 46%, decreased clearance by 21%, increased half-life by 17%, and decreased measured psychomotor performance. (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with alprazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with alprazolam to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the CYP450 system, such as alprazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the CYP450 system, such as alprazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole. (Moderate) Rifabutin could induce the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of oxidized benzodiazepines, such as alprazolam.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the CYP450 system, such as alprazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Opicapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and osilodrostat due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with osilodrostat, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at one-third to one-half the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxymorphone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use an initial dose of oxymorphone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage and titrate to clinical response. If the extended-release oxymorphone tablets are used concurrently with a CNS depressant, use an initial dosage of 5 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Palbociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and palbociclib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with palbociclib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and palbociclib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as benzodiazepines, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness when coadministered with paliperidone. Monitor for signs and symptoms of CNS depression and advise patients to avoid driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of papaverine with potent CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines could lead to enhanced sedation.
PARoxetine: (Minor) The manufacturer of alprazolam states that in vitro studies suggest paroxetine may inhibit the metabolism of alprazolam via inhibition of CYP3A4. However, paroxetine is typically considered a major inhibitor of CYP2D6, for which alprazolam is not a substrate. The potential for clinical interaction is uncertain. Be alert for any change in psychomotor performance or other benzodiazepine-related side effects when paroxetine is combined with alprazolam.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and pazopanib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with pazopanib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and pazopanib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Perphenazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with hydantoins is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Due to the effects of pimozide on cognition, it should be used cautiously with other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and pirtobrutinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with pirtobrutinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and pirtobrutinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of posaconazole and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with posaconazole, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Pramipexole: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, including pramipexole, can potentiate the CNS effects.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Pregabalin: (Major) Concomitant use of benzodiazepines with pregabalin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and primaquine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with primaquine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and primaquine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Primidone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Procarbazine: (Minor) CNS depressants benzodiazepines can potentiate the CNS depression caused by procarbazine therapy, so these drugs should be used together cautiously.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Propofol: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Protriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and quetiapine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and quinine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with quinine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and quinine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Ramelteon is a sleep-promoting agent; therefore, additive pharmacodynamic effects are possible when combining ramelteon with benzodiazepines or other miscellaneous anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Pharmacokinetic interactions have been observed with the use of zolpidem. Use of ramelteon 8 mg/day for 11 days and a single dose of zolpidem 10 mg resulted in an increase in the median Tmax of zolpidem of about 20 minutes; exposure to zolpidem was unchanged. Ramelteon use with hypnotics of any kind is considered duplicative therapy and these drugs are generally not co-administered.
Ranolazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ranolazine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ranolazine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ranolazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of MAOIs can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including buprenorphine, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Use these drugs cautiously with MAOIs; warn patients to not drive or perform other hazardous activities until they know how a particular drug combination affects them. In some cases, the dosages of the CNS depressants may need to be reduced.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alprazolam and relacorilant is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with relacorilant, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Remdesivir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and remdesivir due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with remdesivir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and remdesivir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Benzodiazepine doses may need to be reduced up to 75% during coadministration with remifentanil. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Remimazolam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by alprazolam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of alprazolam and ribociclib 600 mg/day is contraindicated and use with ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day or less is not recommended. Concomitant use may increase alprazolam exposure, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration with ribociclib 400 mg/day or less is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ribociclib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of alprazolam and ribociclib 600 mg/day is contraindicated and use with ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day or less is not recommended. Concomitant use may increase alprazolam exposure, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration with ribociclib 400 mg/day or less is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ribociclib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Rifabutin could induce the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of oxidized benzodiazepines, such as alprazolam.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with rifampin is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with rifapentine is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and rilzabrutinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with rilzabrutinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution should be used when risperidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ritlecitinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ritlecitinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ritonavir due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration of alprazolam and ritonavir is necessary, reduce alprazolam to half of the recommended dosage when a patient is started on ritonavir and alprazolam together, or when ritonavir administered to a patient treated with alprazolam. Increase the alprazolam dosage to the target dose after 10 to 14 days of dosing ritonavir and alprazolam together. It is not necessary to reduce alprazolam dose in patients who have been taking ritonavir for more than 10 to 14 days. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ritonavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Short-term low doses of ritonavir (4 doses of 200 mg) increased mean AUC of alprazolam by about 2.5-fold, and did not significantly affect Cmax of alprazolam. The elimination half-life of alprazolam was prolonged (30 hours vs. 13 hours). Upon extended exposure to ritonavir (500 mg, twice daily for 10 days), CYP3A induction offset this inhibition. Alprazolam AUC and Cmax was reduced by 12% and 16%, respectively, in the presence of ritonavir. The elimination half-life of alprazolam was not significantly changed.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as alprazolam, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Rotigotine: (Major) Concomitant use of rotigotine with other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines, can potentiate the sedative effects of rotigotine.
Rucaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and rucaparib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with rucaparib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of saquinavir boosted with ritonavir and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with saquinavir/ritonavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and saquinavir/ritonavir are strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Oral contraceptives can increase the effects of alprazolam because oral contraceptives inhibit oxidative metabolism, thereby increasing serum concentrations of concomitantly administered benzodiazepines that undergo oxidation. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to alprazolam.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and selegiline due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and selpercatinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with selpercatinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and selpercatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Sertraline: (Minor) The manufacturer of alprazolam states that in vitro studies suggest sertraline may inhibit the metabolism of alprazolam via inhibition of CYP3A4. The potential for clinical interaction is uncertain. Be alert for any change in psychomotor performance or other benzodiazepine-related side effects when sertraline is combined with alprazolam.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and sevabertinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with sevabertinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by benzodiazepines. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
Spironolactone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and spironolactone due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with spironolactone, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and spironolactone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and spironolactone due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with spironolactone, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and spironolactone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with St. John's Wort is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. When given with St. John's Wort, the half-life of alprazolam is reduced and clearance is increased. Reduced alprazolam concentrations may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Stiripentol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and stiripentol due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and data show that stiripentol is both an inhibitor and inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Streptogramins: (Major) Coadministration of alprazolam and dalfopristin; quinupristin is not recommended. If coadministration cannot be avoided, a dosage reduction of alprazolam should be considered. Dalfopristin; quinupristin is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. The initial step in alprazolam metabolism is hydroxylation catalyzed by cytochrome CYP3A. Drugs that inhibit this metabolic pathway may profoundly decrease alprazolam clearance, resulting in increased potential for serious alprazolam-related adverse events, such as respiratory depression and prolonged sedation. Consequently, alprazolam should be avoided in patients receiving very potent inhibitors of CYP3A isoenzymes.
Succinimides: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including anticonvulsants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If tapentadol is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, a reduced initial dosage of tapentadol is recommended. If the extended-release tapentadol tablets are used concurrently with a benzodiazepine, use an initial tapentadol dose of 50 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Teduglutide: (Moderate) Altered mental status has been observed in patients taking teduglutide and benzodiazepines in the adult clinical studies for teduglutide. Careful monitoring and possible dose adjustment of the benzodiazepine agent may be required. Teduglutide has direct effects on the gut that may increase benzodiazepine exposure by improving oral absorption.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as benzodiazepines, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ivacaftor due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ivacaftor, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Thalidomide: (Major) The use of benzodiazepine anxiolytics, sedatives, or hypnotics with thalidomide may cause an additive sedative effect and should be avoided. Thalidomide frequently causes drowsiness and somnolence. Dose reductions may be required. Patients should be instructed to avoid situations where drowsiness may be a problem and not to take other medications that may cause drowsiness without adequate medical advice. Advise patients as to the possible impairment of mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks, such as driving a car or operating other complex or dangerous machinery.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Minor) Aminophylline or Theophylline have been reported to counteract the pharmacodynamic effects of diazepam and possibly other benzodiazepines. The clinical significance of this interaction is not certain. A proposed mechanism is competitive binding of these methylxanthines to adenosine receptors in the brain. If such therapy is initiated or discontinued, monitor the clinical response to the benzodiazepine.
Thioridazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as benzodiazepines. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
tiaGABine: (Moderate) Because of the possible additive effects of drugs that depress the central nervous system, benzodiazepines should be used with caution in patients receiving tiagabine.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ticagrelor due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ticagrelor, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ticagrelor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of tipranavir boosted with ritonavir and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with tipranavir/ritonavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and tipranavir/ritonavir are strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Tobacco: (Major) Advise patients to avoid smoking tobacco while taking alprazolam. According to the manufacturer, alprazolam concentrations may be reduced by up to 50% in tobacco smokers vs. non-smokers. A bioavailability study (n = 17) evaluating the immediate-release and controlled-release formulations of alprazolam found that cigarette smokers had a 100% increase in clearance of alprazolam compared with nonsmokers.
Tolcapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and verapamil due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with verapamil, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
traZODone: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of trazodone and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Treosulfan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and treosulfan due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with treosulfan, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and treosulfan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of trihexyphenidyl.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Trimipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Trofinetide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and trofinetide due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with trofinetide, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of tucatinib and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with tucatinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Major) Any substances that act on the CNS, including psychoactive drugs and drugs used as anesthetic adjuvants (e.g., barbiturates, benzodiazepines), may theoretically interact with valerian, Valeriana officinalis. The valerian derivative, dihydrovaltrate, binds at barbiturate binding sites; valerenic acid has been shown to inhibit enzyme-induced breakdown of GABA in the brain; the non-volatile monoterpenes (valepotriates) have sedative activity. These interactions are probably pharmacodynamic in nature. There is a possibility of interaction with valerian at normal prescription dosages of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates and benzodiazepines). Patients who are taking barbiturates or other sedative/hypnotic drugs should avoid concomitant administration of valerian. Patients taking medications such as tricyclic antidepressants, lithium, MAOIs, skeletal muscle relaxants, SSRIs and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (e.g., duloxetine, venlafaxine) should discuss the use of herbal supplements with their health care professional prior to consuming valerian; combinations should be approached with caution in the absence of clinical data. Patients should not abruptly stop taking their prescribed psychoactive medications.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and valproic acid due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Alprazolam may potentiate the CNS depressant effects of valproic acid. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with valproic acid, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and valproic acid is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and vepdegestrant due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with vepdegestrant, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and verapamil due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with verapamil, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given in combination with benzodiazepines.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as the benzodiazepines.
Viloxazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and viloxazine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with viloxazine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and vonoprazan due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with vonoprazan, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and vonoprazan due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with vonoprazan, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of clarithromycin and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with clarithromycin, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. There have been post-marketing reports of central nervous system (CNS) effects (e.g., somnolence and confusion) with the concomitant use of clarithromycin. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and vonoprazan due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with vonoprazan, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of voriconazole and alprazolam is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with voriconazole, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 2.7- to 3.98-fold.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and voxelotor due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with voxelotor, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and xanomeline due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with xanomeline, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Zafirlukast: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and zafirlukast due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with zafirlukast, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and zafirlukast is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Zaleplon: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of zaleplon and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ziftomenib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ziftomenib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Ziprasidone has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. Additive CNS depressant effects are possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with any CNS depressant.
Zolpidem: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with zolpidem can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. For Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets, reduce the dose to 1.75 mg/night. Concurrent use of zolpidem with other sedative-hypnotics, including other zolpidem products, at bedtime or the middle of the night is not recommended. In addition, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of zolpidem and other CNS depressants than with zolpidem alone.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including anticonvulsants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.


Adverse Reaction
drowsiness, psychomotor impairment


The most frequent adverse effects of alprazolam are due to the CNS depressant effects of the drug. The incidence and severity of these effects vary with the dose used and condition being treated. Drowsiness occurred in 41% to 76.8% of patients treated with immediate-release alprazolam in controlled trials. In controlled trials of extended-release alprazolam for panic disorder, roughly 68% of patients treated with extended-release alprazolam experienced drowsiness (i.e., 23% reported as somnolence and 45.2% reported as sedation). Sedation and somnolence were the most common reasons for discontinuation of treatment (11%). Psychomotor impairment may occur with alprazolam use. Because alprazolam can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, there is a higher risk of falls, particularly in the elderly, with the potential for subsequent severe injuries. During the clinical trial evaluation of extended-release alprazolam, road traffic accidents occurred more frequently in patients receiving alprazolam than placebo (2% vs. 0%).


abnormal dreams, agitation, anxiety, confusion, depression, euphoria, hallucinations, hostility, impulse control symptoms, irritability, mania, nightmares, restlessness, suicidal ideation


In controlled trials of immediate-release alprazolam, the following psychiatric effects occurred more frequently with alprazolam than placebo: irritability (33.1%), agitation (2.9%), confusion (10.4%), derealization (1.9%), abnormal dreams (1.8%), and fear (1.4%). In controlled trials of alprazolam extended-release (ER) for panic disorder, the following psychiatric effects were reported more frequently with alprazolam than placebo: depression (12.1%), confusion (1.5%), disorientation (1.5%), depressed mood (1.3%), and anxiety (1.1%). During premarketing evaluation of alprazolam ER, agitation, irritability, nervousness, derealization, depersonalization, restlessness, and nightmares were reported in at least 1% of patients; abnormal dreams, apathy, aggression, anger, bradyphrenia, euphoria, logorrhea, mood swings, homicidal ideation, mania, hypomania, hallucinations, impulse control symptoms, and suicidal ideation were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients. Irritability resulted in discontinuation of alprazolam ER in 10.5% of patients in studies of panic disorder. During postmarketing use, hypomania and mania have been reported. In some cases, paradoxical stimulation can occur with benzodiazepine use. This is of particular significance in patients with underlying behavioral disorders. Alprazolam should be withdrawn if there is any evidence of agitation, rage, irritability, aggressiveness, or hostility.


akathisia, ataxia, complex sleep-related behaviors, dizziness, dysarthria, dyskinesia, dysphonia, headache, hypoesthesia, impaired cognition, insomnia, libido decrease, libido increase, paresthesias, syncope, tremor


Central nervous system (CNS) adverse events occurring at a greater frequency in patients receiving immediate-release or alprazolam extended-release (ER) than placebo in clinical trials included: impaired coordination (40.1% alprazolam; 9.4% alprazolam ER), impaired cognition (28.8% alprazolam; 7.2% alprazolam ER), dysarthria (23.3% alprazolam; 10.9% alprazolam ER), lightheadedness or dizziness (20.8% alprazolam), libido decrease (14.4% alprazolam; 6% alprazolam ER), libido increase (7.7% alprazolam), libido change (7.1% alprazolam), attention disturbance (3.2% alprazolam ER), impaired balance (3.2% alprazolam ER), akathisia (1.6% alprazolam), dizziness (1.8% alprazolam), disinhibition (2.7% alprazolam), paresthesias (2.4% alprazolam ER), dyskinesia (1.7% alprazolam ER), hypoesthesia (1.3% alprazolam ER), hypersomnia (1.3% alprazolam ER), talkativeness (2.2% alprazolam), feeling warm (1.3% alprazolam), and ataxia (7.2% alprazolam ER). During premarketing evaluation of alprazolam ER, headache, tremor, insomnia, lightheadedness, dizziness, and increased libido were reported in at least 1% of patients; clumsiness, syncope, depressed level of consciousness, dysphonia, complex sleep-related behaviors (i.e., sleep-talking), and stupor were reported (0.1% to less than 1% of patients).


amnesia, memory impairment


Anterograde amnesia and memory impairment can occur after the administration of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines, such as alprazolam. The risk for developing anterograde amnesia increases at higher doses and with concurrent ingestion of alcohol. In clinical trials of extended-release alprazolam for panic disorder, 0.1% to less than 1% of patients experienced amnesia. Memory impairment occurred in 33.1% of patients receiving immediate-release alprazolam and 15.4% of patients receiving extended-release alprazolam for panic disorder and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo. Discontinuation of immediate-release alprazolam or extended-release alprazolam occurred in 1.5% to 5.5% of patients due to memory impairment.


arthralgia, back pain, hypotonia, muscle cramps, myalgia


In controlled trials of alprazolam extended-release (ER) for panic disorder, the following musculoskeletal effects were reported more frequently with alprazolam than placebo: arthralgia (2.4%), myalgia (1.5%), and limb pain (1.1%). During premarketing evaluation of alprazolam ER, back pain, muscle cramps, and muscle twitching were reported in at least 1% of patients; hypotonia was reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients.


hypotension, palpitations, peripheral edema, sinus tachycardia


In controlled trials of immediate-release alprazolam, the following adverse cardiovascular effects occurred more frequently with alprazolam than placebo: hypotension (4.7%). During premarketing evaluation of alprazolam extended-release (ER), palpitations were reported in at least 1% of patients; sinus tachycardia and hypotension were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients. Peripheral edema has been reported during postmarketing use of alprazolam.


abdominal pain, anorexia, appetite stimulation, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hypersalivation, jaundice, nausea, vomiting, weight gain, weight loss, xerostomia


In controlled trials of immediate-release alprazolam, the following gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred more frequently with alprazolam than placebo: appetite stimulation (32.7%), decreased appetite (27.8%), weight gain (27.2%), weight loss (22.6%), constipation (26.2%), xerostomia (14.7%), and hypersalivation (4.2% to 5.6%). In controlled trials of alprazolam extended-release (ER) for panic disorder, the following GI effects were reported more frequently with alprazolam than placebo: decreased appetite (7.3%), appetite stimulation (7%), anorexia (1.5%), xerostomia (10.2%), constipation (8.1%), nausea (6%), pharyngolaryngeal pain (3.2%), weight gain (5.1%), and weight loss (4.3%). During premarketing evaluation of alprazolam ER, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and vomiting were reported in 1% of patients. Dysphagia and hypersalivation were reported infrequently (0.1% to less than 1%). During postmarketing use, GI disorder (unspecified), elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hepatic failure, and jaundice have been reported.


dysmenorrhea, galactorrhea, gynecomastia, hyperprolactinemia, increased urinary frequency, menstrual irregularity, urinary incontinence


In controlled trials of immediate-release alprazolam, the following genitourinary (GU) effects occurred more frequently with alprazolam than placebo: micturition difficulties (12.2%), menstrual irregularity (10.4%), sexual dysfunction (7.4%), and unspecified incontinence (1.5%). In controlled trials of alprazolam extended-release (ER) for panic disorder, the following GU effects were reported more frequently with alprazolam than placebo: dysmenorrhea (3.6%), sexual dysfunction (2.4%), and premenstrual syndrome (1.7%). During premarketing evaluation of alprazolam ER, micturition difficulties were reported in at least 1% of patients, and increased urinary frequency and urinary incontinence were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients. During postmarketing use, hyperprolactinemia, gynecomastia, and galactorrhea have been reported.


seizures


Seizures were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients receiving extended-release alprazolam (alprazolam ER) during premarketing evaluation. In addition, seizures and status epilepticus have been reported upon discontinuation of alprazolam. Seizures occurred on discontinuation or dose reduction in 8 of 1,980 patients with panic disorder or in clinical trials of alprazolam using doses greater than 4 mg/day for over 3 months. The risk of seizures is highest 24 to 72 hours after discontinuation and may be increased with higher doses (greater than 4 mg/day). Alprazolam therapy should not be abruptly discontinued, especially in patients with a history of seizures or epilepsy. Patients requiring a dose reduction should be gradually tapered.  


angioedema, hot flashes, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, rhinitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria


In controlled trials of immediate-release alprazolam, the following dermatologic or hypersensitivity effects occurred more frequently with alprazolam than placebo: dermatitis (3.8%) and rash (10.8%). In controlled trials of alprazolam extended-release (ER) for panic disorder, the following dermatologic or hypersensitivity effects were reported more frequently with alprazolam than placebo: hot flashes (1.5%), allergic rhinitis (1.1%), and pruritus (1.1%). During premarketing evaluation of alprazolam ER, hyperhidrosis was reported in at least 1% of patients and clamminess, rash, and urticaria were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients. Stevens-Johnson syndrome, angioedema, and photosensitivity have been reported during postmarketing use.


apnea, dyspnea, epistaxis, hyperventilation, nasal congestion, rhinorrhea


In controlled trials of extended-release alprazolam (ER) for panic disorder, dyspnea (2%) was reported more frequently with alprazolam than placebo. During premarketing evaluation of alprazolam ER, nasal congestion and hyperventilation were reported in at least 1% of patients; choking sensation, epistaxis, and rhinorrhea were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients. During premarketing evaluation of alprazolam ER, sleep apnea syndrome was reported (0.1% to less than 1% of patients).


blurred vision, diplopia, mydriasis, ocular hypertension, otalgia, photophobia, tinnitus, vertigo


Diplopia (1% or more) and blurred vision have been reported with use of benzodiazepines, including alprazolam. During premarketing evaluation of extended-release (ER) alprazolam, special senses adverse effects including vertigo and blurred vision were reported in at least 1% of patients; tinnitus, otalgia, mydriasis, and photophobia occurred in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients. Some epidemiologic studies suggest an association of alprazolam with a risk for acute angle closure glaucoma with resultant ocular hypertension.


asthenia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, fatigue, fever, lethargy, malaise, weakness


General adverse events occurring at a greater frequency in those receiving immediate-release or alprazolam extended-release (ER) than with placebo in clinical trials included: fatigue (49% alprazolam; 13.9% alprazolam ER) and lethargy (1.7% alprazolam ER). The following general disorders were reported in at least 1% of alprazolam recipients: malaise, weakness, and chest pain (unspecified). Fall, fever, thirst, feeling hot and cold, edema, feeling jittery, sluggishness, asthenia, feeling drunk, chest tightness, increased energy, feeling of relaxation, hangover, loss of control of legs, and rigors were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of treated individuals.


tolerance


Tolerance to alprazolam may develop from continued therapy. Tolerance is a physiological state characterized by a reduced response to a drug after repeated administration (i.e., a higher dose of a drug is required to produce the same effect that was once obtained at a lower dose). Tolerance to the therapeutic effect of alprazolam may develop; however, little tolerance develops to the amnestic reactions and other cognitive impairments caused by benzodiazepines.


physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal

Prolonged use of benzodiazepines can produce physiological dependence with or without psychological dependence. The risk of psychological dependence increases in those with a history of alcohol or substance abuse. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, and death. Caution is advised when considering the use of benzodiazepines in patients with a known or suspected history of substance abuse. To discourage abuse, prescribe the smallest appropriate quantity of the benzodiazepine and provide proper disposal instructions for unused drug. Avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants or other medications associated with addiction or abuse. Clinically significant physiological dependence may occur with continued use of benzodiazepines. The risks of dependence and withdrawal increase with longer treatment duration and higher daily dose. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of benzodiazepines after continued use may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening. Withdrawal symptoms may range from mild dysphoria and insomnia to a major withdrawal syndrome including abdominal and muscle cramps, vomiting, sweating, tremors, and seizures. In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months. Use a gradual dosage taper to lower the risk of withdrawal reactions when reducing the dose or discontinuing therapy. Withdrawal effects and rebound of symptoms are common following discontinuation of alprazolam, despite a gradual tapering of the drug. Withdrawal may lead to rebound of symptoms of panic disorder that is more severe than before treatment. In one placebo-controlled study of patients with panic disorder and phobic avoidance (n = 126), the study medication was tapered over a 4-week period. During the taper, a rebound of panic attacks was reported by 27% of the alprazolam-treated patients and a rebound of anxiety occurred in 13% of the patients. A mild to moderate withdrawal syndrome was reported in 35% of the alprazolam-treated group and none of the placebo-treated patients. Concurrent rebound of symptoms and a withdrawal syndrome reportedly occurred in 10% of the alprazolam group. The following symptoms have been associated with alprazolam withdrawal: heightened sensory perception, impaired concentration, dysosmia, clouded sensorium, paresthesias, muscle cramps, muscle twitch, diarrhea, blurred vision, appetite decrease, weight loss, anxiety, and insomnia. If discontinuation of therapy is indicated, use a gradual, patient-specific taper to reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions. If significant withdrawal symptoms occur, the rate of reduction may need to be slowed or paused. Adjunctive medications may also be considered to help mitigate withdrawal effects.

coma, respiratory depression


Respiratory depression can occur with benzodiazepine therapy, particularly with misuse, coadministration with other CNS depressants, or overdosage. Concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids or alcohol may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Monitor alprazolam recipients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.


neonatal abstinence syndrome, neonatal respiratory depression


Benzodiazepines cross the placenta and may produce sedation, hypotonia, lethargy, and neonatal respiratory depression at birth. Monitor exposed neonates during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation, respiratory depression, hypotonia, and feeding problems. Neonatal withdrawal or a neonatal abstinence syndrome has also been reported following the ingestion of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines during the last weeks of pregnancy. Clinical manifestations of neonatal withdrawal may include hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties. These complications can appear shortly after delivery to 3 weeks after birth and persist from hours to several months, depending on the degree of dependence and pharmacokinetic profile of the benzodiazepine. Observe neonates who are exposed to benzodiazepines in utero during the later stages of pregnancy for symptoms of withdrawal and manage appropriately. Benzodiazepines should be withdrawn cautiously and slowly, using a very gradual dosage-tapering schedule.


Description

Alprazolam is an oral benzodiazepine used in adults for the treatment of panic disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and the short-term relief of anxiety symptoms. An extended-release formulation is used in the treatment of panic disorder in adults.  When treating anxiety disorders, benzodiazepines are generally reserved for the temporary management of anxiety symptoms as an adjunct to first-line pharmacotherapies (e.g., SSRI or SNRI) or for treatment-resistant cases. The ASAM guidelines recommend re-evaluating the risks and benefits of ongoing benzodiazepine use at least every 3 months; for patients who are candidates for discontinuation, an individualized taper strategy should be used that considers dose, duration, and frequency of use. Alprazolam is characterized by an intermediate duration of effect and fast onset of action, and has minimally active metabolites. However, short-acting benzodiazepines without active metabolites such as lorazepam or oxazepam are preferred in many instances. Like many other benzodiazepines, alprazolam has clinically significant CYP3A4-mediated drug interactions. As with all benzodiazepines, product labels carry a boxed warning for a risk of fatal respiratory depression particularly when used with opioids, as well as risks for substance abuse, misuse and addiction, and withdrawal reactions with discontinuation. Alprazolam was initially approved by the FDA in 1981.

Mechanism Of Action

Benzodiazepines act at the level of the limbic, thalamic, and hypothalamic regions of the CNS, and can produce any level of CNS depression required, including sedation, hypnosis, skeletal muscle relaxation, anticonvulsant activity, and coma. Alprazolam easily crosses the blood brain barrier and enters the CNS, where it binds non-selectively to the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor complex, with a preference for the A subtype. This binding allows for an influx of chloride ions and enhances the inhibitory effects of GABA, blocking cortical and limbic arousal and increasing the inhibition of the ascending reticular activating system. The GABA system also interacts with other neurotransmitter systems, including noradrenergic, serotonergic, and cholinergic pathways. Interactions with the serotonergic and noradrenergic pathways to the limbic system and brain stem structures are believed to contribute to clinical effectiveness in the treatment of anxiety.

Pharmacokinetics

Alprazolam is administered orally. Alprazolam is widely distributed and is 80% bound to plasma proteins, primarily to serum albumin. Alprazolam undergoes oxidative metabolism in the liver through CYP3A4, producing metabolites with little or no activity. The alpha-hydroxy-alprazolam metabolite is approximately one-half as potent as the parent compound and the 4-hydroxyalprazolam metabolite has about one-fifth the potency of alprazolam. The plasma concentrations of these metabolites relative to unchanged alprazolam concentrations are less than 4%. The benzophenone derivative is inactive. The half-life of alprazolam immediate-release tablets is 11.2 hours (range: 6.3 to 26.9 hours). The half-life of alprazolam extended-release ranges from roughly 11 to 16 hours. Alprazolam and its metabolites are excreted primarily in the urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Alprazolam metabolism occurs mainly by CYP3A4. Interactions can occur with other drugs that preferentially inhibit or induce this enzyme. Ketoconazole and itraconazole, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, are contraindicated for use with alprazolam.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route


Alprazolam immediate-release: Alprazolam is readily absorbed following oral administration. Bioavailability is approximately 100%. Peak plasma concentrations are attained within 1 to 2 hours of administration of the immediate-release tablets. The onset of action usually occurs within 15 to 30 minutes.
Alprazolam extended-release (ER) tablets: The pharmacokinetics of alprazolam ER tablets are similar to the immediate-release tablets, except that the ER tablets have a slower rate of absorption and yield a constant concentration maintained between 5 and 11 hours after dosing. The mean absolute bioavailability of alprazolam ER is approximately 90%. Although elevations up to 25% in the Cmax have been observed when ER tablets were given following a high-fat meal, the AUC and half-life were not affected by the consumption of food. Additionally, alprazolam ER administered at night versus the morning results in a 30% higher maximum concentration and a reduction in half-life by 1 hour. The rate of metabolism of alprazolam ER is not affected by the slower rate of absorption.


Hepatic Impairment

Alprazolam clearance is reduced in patients with significant hepatic impairment. In those with alcoholic liver disease, the half-life of alprazolam ranged from 5.8 to 65.3 hours compared to a range of 6.3 to 26.9 hours in healthy subjects. Although pharmacokinetic studies have not been performed with the extended-release formulation, the pharmacokinetics of immediate-release and extended-release alprazolam are not expected to be different.

Renal Impairment

Although alprazolam is extensively metabolized in the liver, alprazolam and its metabolites are excreted primarily in the urine. Increased levels of free alprazolam have been reported in patients with end-stage renal impairment (renal failure) receiving hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis compared to healthy controls.

Pediatrics

The pharmacokinetics of alprazolam in pediatric patients have not been studied.

Geriatric

The mean half-life of immediate-release alprazolam is prolonged to 16.3 hours in geriatric adults compared to 11.2 hours in younger healthy subjects. Although pharmacokinetic studies have not been performed with the extended-release formulation, the pharmacokinetics of immediate-release and extended-release alprazolam are not expected to be different.

Gender Differences

Gender has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of alprazolam.

Ethnic Differences

Maximal concentrations and half-life of alprazolam are approximately 15% and 25% higher in Asians patients compared to White patients.

Obesity

In one group of obese patients, the half-life of alprazolam ranged between 9.9 and 40.4 hours compared to a range of 6.3 to 15.8 hours in healthy subjects. Although pharmacokinetic studies have not been performed with the extended-release formulation, the pharmacokinetics of immediate-release and extended-release alprazolam are not expected to be different.

Other

Smoking
Alprazolam concentrations may be reduced by up to 50% in tobacco smokers compared to non-smokers. In one small study (n = 10), the mean half-life of alprazolam was significantly shorter in smokers (greater than 10 cigarettes/day) than nonsmokers. No significant differences between groups were found in other pharmacokinetic parameters (Cmax, AUC). A bioavailability study (n = 17) evaluating the immediate-release and controlled-release formulations of alprazolam found that cigarette smokers had a 100% increase in clearance of alprazolam compared with nonsmokers. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) found in tobacco smoke are potent inducers of CYP1A1, CYP1A2, and possibly CYP2E1. Because the clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic effect of tobacco smoking with alprazolam is unknown, further evaluation is needed.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations

Immediate-release tablets
May be administered without regard to meals.
 
Orally disintegrating tablets (ODT)
Do not remove the ODT from the package until just prior to administration.
With dry hands, place the tablet on top of the tongue where it will disintegrate and be swallowed with saliva.
Administration with liquid is not necessary.
 
Extended-release (ER) tablets
Do not chew, break or crush. Administer ER tablets whole with a drink of water.
Preferably administer ER tablets in the morning.


Oral Liquid Formulations

Oral solution
May be administered without regard to meals.
Measure the dose with the calibrated dropper supplied by the manufacturer to ensure accurate dosage.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

10 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

10 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Not indicated.

Dosage Forms

Alprazolam 0.25mg Oral disintegrating tablet

Alprazolam 0.25mg Oral tablet

Alprazolam 0.5mg Oral disintegrating tablet

Alprazolam 0.5mg Oral tablet

Alprazolam 0.5mg Oral tablet, extended release

Alprazolam 1mg Oral disintegrating tablet

Alprazolam 1mg Oral tablet

Alprazolam 1mg Oral tablet, extended release

Alprazolam 1mg/1mL Oral solution

Alprazolam 2mg Oral disintegrating tablet

Alprazolam 2mg Oral tablet

Alprazolam 2mg Oral tablet, extended release

Alprazolam 3mg Oral tablet, extended release

Alprazolam Bulk powder

Xanax 0.25mg Tablet

Xanax 0.25mg Tablet

Xanax 0.25mg Tablet

Xanax 0.5mg Tablet

Xanax 0.5mg Tablet

Xanax 1mg Tablet

Xanax 2mg Tablet

Xanax XR 0.5mg Extended-Release Tablet

Xanax XR 1mg Extended-Release Tablet

Xanax XR 2mg Extended-Release Tablet

Xanax XR 3mg Extended-Release Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Immediate-release formulations: Initially, 0.25 mg PO 2 to 3 times daily for adults. If side effects occur at this recommended starting dose, decrease dosage. May increase gradually if needed and tolerated.
Extended-release formulations: Initially, 0.5 mg PO once daily for adults. May increase gradually if needed and tolerated.

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier