=== Sodium picosulfate/Magnesium oxide/Anhydrous citric acid (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3772)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid is a combination of a stimulant and osmotic laxative used for bowel cleansing prior to colonoscopy.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Two bottles PO per bowel evacuation.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): fecal incontinence, fecal urgency, headache, hypermagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypochloremia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, syncope, anaphylactoid reactions, purpura, rash, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid is contraindicated in people with severe renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less) or renal failure, which may result in...

Brand Names
  - CLENPIQ
  - Prepopik

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (Clenpiq oral solution)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        There are 2 approved dosing regimens; each requires separate dosing times. The preferred method is the Split-Dose method: The first dose is taken during the evening prior to the colonoscopy (e.g., 5:00 to 9:00 PM) followed by five 8-ounce drinks (upper line on the dosing cup) of clear liquids before bed. Clear liquids must be consumed within 5 hours. The second dose is taken the next day, approximately 5 hours before the colonoscopy followed by at least three 8-ounce drinks of clear liquids before the colonoscopy. Clear liquids must be consumed within 5 hours up until 2 hours before the time of the colonoscopy. The alternative dosing method is the Day Before regimen, which is for patients for whom the Split-Dose is inappropriate: The first dose is taken in the afternoon or early evening (e.g., 4:00 to 6:00 PM) before the colonoscopy followed by five 8-ounce drinks (upper line on the dosing cup) of clear liquids before the next dose. Clear liquids must be consumed within 5 hours. The second dose is taken approximately 6 hours later in the late evening (e.g., 10:00 PM to 12:00 AM), the night before the colonoscopy followed by three 8-ounce drinks of clear liquids before bed. Clear liquids must be consumed within 5 hours. Patients should consume only clear liquids (no solid food or milk) on the day before the colonoscopy up until 2 hours before the time of the colonoscopy. Instruct patients that if they experience severe bloating, distention, or abdominal pain after the first dose, delay the second dose until their symptoms resolve, and contact their prescriber for any additional information regarding their scheduled procedure.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 9 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        There are 2 approved dosing regimens; each requires separate dosing times. The preferred method is the Split-Dose method: The first dose is taken during the evening prior to the colonoscopy (e.g., 5:00 to 9:00 PM) followed by five 8-ounce drinks (upper line on the dosing cup) of clear liquids before bed. Clear liquids must be consumed within 5 hours. The second dose is taken the next day, approximately 5 hours before the colonoscopy followed by at least three 8-ounce drinks of clear liquids before the colonoscopy. Clear liquids must be consumed within 5 hours up until 2 hours before the time of the colonoscopy. The alternative dosing method is the Day Before regimen, which is for patients for whom the Split-Dose is inappropriate: The first dose is taken in the afternoon or early evening (e.g., 4:00 to 6:00 PM) before the colonoscopy followed by five 8-ounce drinks (upper line on the dosing cup) of clear liquids before the next dose. Clear liquids must be consumed within 5 hours. The second dose is taken approximately 6 hours later in the late evening (e.g., 10:00 PM to 12:00 AM), the night before the colonoscopy followed by three 8-ounce drinks of clear liquids before bed. Clear liquids must be consumed within 5 hours. Patients should consume only clear liquids (no solid food or milk) on the day before the colonoscopy up until 2 hours before the time of the colonoscopy. Instruct patients that if they experience severe bloating, distention, or abdominal pain after the first dose, delay the second dose until their symptoms resolve, and contact their prescriber for any additional information regarding their scheduled procedure.
    Heading
    For use as a bowel evacuant to clean the colon prior to colonoscopy (bowel preparation)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid is contraindicated in people with severe renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less) or renal failure, which may result in accumulation of magnesium. Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid for those with mild to moderate renal impairment or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). These patients may be at increased risk for renal injury. Advise these individuals of the importance of adequate hydration before, during and after use of this regimen. Consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients.
    Headline
    aspiration, gag reflex depression, GI obstruction, inflammatory bowel disease, intestinal perforation, toxic megacolon
    General Information
    Sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid is contraindicated in patients with GI obstruction or ileus, bowel or intestinal perforation, gastric retention (e.g., gastroparesis, pyloric stenosis), and toxic megacolon/colitis. If GI obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering a bowel cleansing agent. The use of osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations. There have been reports of serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization and the concurrent use of stimulant laxatives may increase these risks. Use with caution in people with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including severe active ulcerative colitis. When interpreting colonoscopic findings in IBD patients, consider the potential for mucosal ulcerations caused by the bowel preparation. Also, use with caution in patients with gag reflex depression or patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration; such patients should be monitored during administration.
    Headline
    electrolyte imbalance
    General Information
    Before administering sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid, correct any pre-existing electrolyte imbalance (e.g. hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances may lead to serious adverse events such as heart arrhythmias, seizures, and renal dysfunction may occur with use of this bowel cleansing regimen. Use with caution in patients with conditions that may increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances, including taking certain concurrent medications that affect fluid and electrolyte balance. Proper dilution and administration is imperative, as direct ingestion of the undiluted solution may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration, and electrolyte disturbances. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration, including signs of orthostatic hypotension after taking this bowel cleansing regimen, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) and treat accordingly. Patients should be made aware of the risk of syncope and given instructions to adequately hydrate before, during, and after use.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women to determine a drug-associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes; sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid should be administered to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed. Reproductive studies with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid (at about 1.2 times the recommended human dose based on BSA) in pregnant rats did not reveal any evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus. The reproduction study in rabbits was not adequate since treatment-related mortalities were observed at all doses. Evidence appears to favor PEG-electrolyte solutions as preferred agents to bowel preparations containing sodium (which might have a higher association with fluid and electrolyte abnormalities) when complete bowel evacuation is necessary during pregnancy.
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    Use sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid with caution in patients with a seizure history or at an increased risk for seizures. Patients taking concomitant medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia may be at an increased risk. There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizure disorder. The seizures were associated with electrolyte abnormalities including lowered serum sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and low serum osmolality. After the correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, neurologic abnormalities resolved.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of magnesium oxide or anhydrous citric acid in either human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Published data on lactating women indicate that the active metabolite of sodium picosulfate, bis-(p-hydroxyphenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) remained below the limit of detection (1 ng/mL) in breast milk after both single and multiple doses of 10 mg/day. There are no data on the effects of sodium picosulfate on the breastfed infant or on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mothers clinical need for sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous oral solution and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous oral solution or the underlying maternal condition. The safest bowel evacuants for use in lactating women are those that are not systemically absorbed. Consensus documents indicate that PEG-containing bowel preparations represent a low risk when used during breast-feeding. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally ingested drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.
    Headline
    cardiac arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, myocardial infarction, QT prolongation, unstable angina
    General Information
    Serious cardiac arrhythmias have been reported after bowel preparation with ionic osmotic laxative products. Use sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid with caution in patients at an increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias. Individuals at increased risk of arrhythmias include patients with QT prolongation or on concurrent medications that may increase the likelihood of QT prolongation, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy. Consider performing a diagnostic ECG on high-risk patients before and after the colonoscopic procedure.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women to determine a drug-associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes; sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid should be administered to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed. Reproductive studies with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid (at about 1.2 times the recommended human dose based on BSA) in pregnant rats did not reveal any evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus. The reproduction study in rabbits was not adequate since treatment-related mortalities were observed at all doses. Evidence appears to favor PEG-electrolyte solutions as preferred agents to bowel preparations containing sodium (which might have a higher association with fluid and electrolyte abnormalities) when complete bowel evacuation is necessary during pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of magnesium oxide or anhydrous citric acid in either human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Published data on lactating women indicate that the active metabolite of sodium picosulfate, bis-(p-hydroxyphenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) remained below the limit of detection (1 ng/mL) in breast milk after both single and multiple doses of 10 mg/day. There are no data on the effects of sodium picosulfate on the breastfed infant or on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mothers clinical need for sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous oral solution and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous oral solution or the underlying maternal condition. The safest bowel evacuants for use in lactating women are those that are not systemically absorbed. Consensus documents indicate that PEG-containing bowel preparations represent a low risk when used during breast-feeding. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally ingested drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Amikacin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Amitriptyline: (Minor) There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. While seizures have generally been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, such as hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolarity, patients receiving medications that lower the seizure threshold may be at an increased risk for experiencing seizures with bowel preparation products.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Amoxicillin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Amoxicillin; Clavulanic Acid: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Ampicillin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Antibiotics: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Azithromycin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Aztreonam: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Aztreonam; Avibactam: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Candesartan: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Captopril: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Cefaclor: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Cefadroxil: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
ceFAZolin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Cefdinir: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Cefepime: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Cefiderocol: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Cefixime: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Cefotaxime: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
cefoTEtan: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
cefOXitin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Cefpodoxime: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Cefprozil: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Ceftaroline: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
cefTAZidime: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
cefTAZidime; Avibactam: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Ceftobiprole: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Ceftolozane; Tazobactam: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
cefTRIAXone: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Cefuroxime: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Cephalexin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Minor) There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. While seizures have generally been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, such as hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolarity, patients receiving medications that lower the seizure threshold may be at an increased risk for experiencing seizures with bowel preparation products.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Chlorpromazine may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, chlorpromazine should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Clindamycin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
clomiPRAMINE: (Minor) There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. While seizures have generally been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, such as hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolarity, patients receiving medications that lower the seizure threshold may be at an increased risk for experiencing seizures with bowel preparation products.
Dalbavancin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
DAPTOmycin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Delafloxacin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Demeclocycline: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Desipramine: (Minor) There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. While seizures have generally been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, such as hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolarity, patients receiving medications that lower the seizure threshold may be at an increased risk for experiencing seizures with bowel preparation products.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Iron salts may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, products containing iron should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid together with caution. Dichlorphenamide increases potassium excretion and can cause hypokalemia and should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause hypokalemia including laxatives. Measure potassium concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If hypokalemia occurs or persists, consider reducing the dichlorphenamide dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Dicloxacillin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Digoxin: (Major) Digoxin may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, digoxin should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. In addition, the manufacturer cautions the use of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk, such as digoxin.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Diuretics: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Doxepin: (Minor) There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. While seizures have generally been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, such as hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolarity, patients receiving medications that lower the seizure threshold may be at an increased risk for experiencing seizures with bowel preparation products.
Doxycycline: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Eravacycline: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Ertapenem: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Erythromycin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) Iron salts may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, products containing iron should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Gentamicin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Imipenem; Cilastatin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Imipenem; Cilastatin; Relebactam: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Imipramine: (Minor) There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. While seizures have generally been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, such as hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolarity, patients receiving medications that lower the seizure threshold may be at an increased risk for experiencing seizures with bowel preparation products.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Iron salts may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, products containing iron should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Iron: (Moderate) Iron salts may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, products containing iron should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Iron salts may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, products containing iron should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Iron salts may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, products containing iron should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Lincomycin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Linezolid: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Losartan: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Meropenem: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Minocycline: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Nafcillin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Iron salts may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, products containing iron should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Iron salts may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, products containing iron should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Nortriptyline: (Minor) There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. While seizures have generally been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, such as hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolarity, patients receiving medications that lower the seizure threshold may be at an increased risk for experiencing seizures with bowel preparation products.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Oxacillin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
penicillAMINE: (Major) Penicillamine may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, penicillamine should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Penicillin G Benzathine: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Penicillin G: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Penicillin V: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. While seizures have generally been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, such as hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolarity, patients receiving medications that lower the seizure threshold may be at an increased risk for experiencing seizures with bowel preparation products.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Pivmecillinam: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Polymyxin B: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Polysaccharide-Iron Complex: (Moderate) Iron salts may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, products containing iron should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Protriptyline: (Minor) There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. While seizures have generally been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, such as hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolarity, patients receiving medications that lower the seizure threshold may be at an increased risk for experiencing seizures with bowel preparation products.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Secnidazole: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) Iron salts may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, products containing iron should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Streptomycin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
sulfADIAZINE: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
sulfaSALAzine: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Tedizolid: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Telavancin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Tetracycline: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Tigecycline: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Tobramycin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Torsemide: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Minor) There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. While seizures have generally been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, such as hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolarity, patients receiving medications that lower the seizure threshold may be at an increased risk for experiencing seizures with bowel preparation products.
Trimethoprim: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Trimipramine: (Minor) There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. While seizures have generally been associated with electrolyte abnormalities, such as hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolarity, patients receiving medications that lower the seizure threshold may be at an increased risk for experiencing seizures with bowel preparation products.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Vancomycin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, fecal incontinence, fecal urgency
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions, including abdominal bloating, distension, abdominal pain/cramping, fecal urgency, and watery diarrhea, are expected effects after the administration of colonic cleansing preparations; during clinical trials, these events were common as expected but specific incidences were not collected; only those GI events that required medical intervention and met criteria for serious adverse events were specifically noted. During postmarketing experience, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fecal incontinence or fecal urgency, and proctalgia have been reported with the use of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid for colon preparation prior to colonoscopy. During clinical trials in pediatric patients aged 9 to 16 years, abdominal pain was 1 of the most common reactions occurring in greater than 5% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fecal incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      fecal urgency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    headache, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    In randomized, multicenter, controlled clinical trials of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid administered as either the Split-Dose or Day-Before regimen, nausea (2.6% to 3%), headache (1.6% to 2.7%), and vomiting (1% to 1.4%) were the most common treatment-emergent adverse reactions reported. During clinical trials in pediatric patients aged 9 to 16 years, nausea and vomiting were among the most common reactions reported in greater than 5% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bowel ischemia, colitis
    General Information
    There have been isolated reports of reversible aphthoid ileal ulcers in patients receiving sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid for colon preparation prior to colonoscopy. Ischemic colitis (bowel ischemia with colitis) has also been reported. However, a causal relationship has not been established. Use sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid with caution in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) including severe active ulcerative colitis. When interpreting colonoscopic findings in IBD patients, consider the potential for mucosal ulcerations caused by the bowel preparation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bowel ischemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hypermagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypochloremia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, syncope
    General Information
    Like other osmotic bowel preparation products, sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid can cause electrolyte abnormalities, especially if patients become dehydrated. During clinical evaluation, sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid administered as either the Split-Dose or Day-Before regimen was compared to polyethylene glycol and electrolytes (PEG + E) plus two 5 mg bisacodyl tablets. In general, sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid was associated with numerically higher rates of abnormal electrolyte shifts. Laboratory shifts recorded on the day of colonoscopy were reported (percentage of patients with normal baseline values who had a shift to abnormal values) for sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid and PEG3350 + E + bisacodyl, respectively, and included: hypermagnesemia (8.7% to 11.6% vs. 0.3%), hypochloremia (1% to 3.7% vs. 0.3%), high creatinine (1.9% to 4.5% vs. 4.9% to 5.9%), hypokalemia (4.7% to 7.3% vs. 4.1% to 4.8%), hyponatremia (1% to 3.7% vs. 1%), low eGFR (10% to 13.1% vs. 7.9% to 11.2%), and hypocalcemia (0.7% vs. 0.3% to 0.7%). Laboratory shifts from baseline recorded on Day 30 post-colonoscopy were also reported for sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid and PEG + E + bisacodyl, respectively, and included: hypermagnesemia (0.3% vs. 0.7%), hypochloremia (0.7% vs. 1%), high creatinine (4.2% to 6.8% vs. 3.7% to 5.3%), hypokalemia (2.5% to 3.9% vs. 2.8% to 2.9%), hyponatremia (0.4% to 0.7% vs. 0.3% to 1%), low eGFR (10.6% to 10.8% vs. 10% to 10.7%), and hypocalcemia (0% vs. 0.4%). Significant electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events such as cardiac arrhythmias, convulsions, and renal dysfunction. Electrolytes abnormalities were observed in pediatric patients similar to those seen in adults. Three out of 78 patients receiving another formulation of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid had hypoglycemia (40 to 47 mg/dL). The abnormal values occurred at the colonoscopy visit for 1 patient and at the 5-day follow-up visit for the other 2 patients. All 3 patients were asymptomatic. Syncope has been reported in postmarketing experience, with some cases involving hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Cases of syncope were reported after 1 to 2 doses and within 12 hours of dosing, and some cases were serious events that included falls with associated head injuries or fractures requiring hospitalization. Advise patients of the risk of syncope during treatment and to adequately hydrate before, during, and after the use of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypermagnesemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypochloremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    During postmarketing experience with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid, there have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures associated with and without hyponatremia in epileptic patients. In addition, there have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizure disorder. Seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities including hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolality. After the correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, neurologic abnormalities resolved. Therefore, sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid should be used with caution in patients with a seizure history or at an increased risk for seizures.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, orthostatic hypotension
    General Information
    Serious cardiac arrhythmias have been reported after bowel preparation with ionic osmotic laxative products. The use of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may cause arrhythmia exacerbation in patients at an increased risk of arrhythmias. In addition, in clinical trials, approximately 20% of patients in both arms (sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid, 2L of PEG3350 + E plus two x 5-mg bisacodyl tablets) of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid had orthostatic hypotension type changes (changes in blood pressure and/or heart rate) on the day of colonoscopy. In clinical trials with another formulation of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid, orthostatic changes were documented out to seven days post colonoscopy. In a pediatric study of patients 9 to 16 years of age receiving another formulation of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid, approximately 20% of patients in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid arms had orthostatic changes (changes in blood pressure and/or heart rate) compared with approximately 7% of those who received the comparator (PEG); these changes occurred up to 5 days post colonoscopy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, purpura, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    During postmarketing experience with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid, hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including anaphylactoid reactions, rash (unspecified), urticaria, and purpura.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid is a combination of a stimulant and osmotic laxative used for bowel cleansing prior to colonoscopy. The preparation consists of 2 doses taken at separate times; additional fluid intake is necessary for appropriate bowel cleansing and in order to reduce the risk of fluid and electrolyte imbalance. In clinical evaluation, the most common side effects reported included nausea, headache, and vomiting. Sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid is approved for use in adults and pediatric patients 9 years and older.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Sodium picosulfate: Sodium picosulfate is a stimulant laxative which must be hydrolyzed by colonic bacteria to form an active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane, BHPM; colonic peristalsis is achieved via BHPM's actions on the colonic mucosa.
Magnesium oxide and citric acid: Magnesium oxide and anhydrous citric acid react to create an osmotic laxative, magnesium citrate in solution; this results in water retention within the gastrointestinal tract.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration of 2 doses separated by 6 hours, in 16 healthy volunteers, sodium picosulfate reached a mean Cmax of 3.2 ng/mL at approximately 7 hours (Tmax). After the first dose the corresponding values were 2.3 ng/mL at 2 hours. Plasma levels of the free BHPM were low; 13 subjects had plasma BHPM concentrations below the lower limit of quantification (0.1 ng/mL). Urinary samples show that the majority of excreted BHPM was in the glucuronide-conjugated form. Magnesium oxide and citric acid react in water to create magnesium citrate. Baseline uncorrected magnesium concentration reached a Cmax of approximately 1.9 mEq/L, at 10 hours post initial packet administration (Tmax); this represents an approximately 20% increase from the baseline.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of picosulfate was studied in pediatric patients aged from 9 to 16 years old. For picosulfate, the apparent clearance is from 316 to 409 L/hour. The corresponding estimates for apparent volume of distribution are from 2457 to 3935 liters. The derived half-life using these model estimates would be 7 hours. The picosulfate reached the mean Cmax of 3.5 +/- 2.1 ng/mL at approximately 6 to 7 hours (Tmax ). The baseline uncorrected mean serum magnesium concentration was 2.02 mEq/L at 10 hours after the first dose and ranged from 1.7 to 2.46 mEq/L.
  Text
  Sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid is administered orally as a solution. Sodium picosulfate, which is a prodrug, is converted to its active metabolite, BHPM, by colonic bacteria.
 
Sodium picosulfate did not inhibit the major CYP enzymes (CYP 1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4/5) in vitro using human liver microsomes. Based on an in vitro study using freshly isolated hepatocyte culture, sodium picosulfate is not an inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2B6 or CYP3A4/5. After administration of 2 doses separated by 6 hours, in 16 healthy volunteers, the terminal half-life of sodium picosulfate was 7.4 hours. The fraction of the absorbed sodium picosulfate dose excreted unchanged in urine was 0.19%.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Clenpiq oral solution
The solution is ready to drink; it does not need to be diluted prior to administration. It is a clear solution with possible presence of visible particles.
One bottle is equivalent to 1 dose. Two doses are required for a complete preparation for colonoscopy either as a Split-Dose or Day-Before dosing regimen.
The preferred method is the "split dose" method and consists of 2 separate doses: the first dose during the evening before the colonoscopy and the second dose the next day, during the morning prior to the colonoscopy.
The alternative method is the "day before" method and consists of 2 separate doses: the first dose during the afternoon or early evening before the colonoscopy and the second dose 6 hours later during the evening before the colonoscopy.
Additional clear fluids must be consumed after every dose in both dosing regimens, and should include balanced electrolyte solutions. Additional clear liquids, other than water, include black coffee or tea, plain jello, clear broth or bouillon, clear juices without pulp, ginger ale and other sodas, and frozen juice bars. Do not drink anything colored red or purple.
Instruct patients to consume only clear fluids (no solid food or dairy) on the day before the colonoscopy up until 2 hours before the time of the colonoscopy. Do not drink anything colored red or purple. Do not drink alcohol.
Do not take other laxatives during treatment; do not take oral medications within 1 hour before or after starting treatment.
Instruct patients that if they experience severe bloating, distention, or abdominal pain after the first dose, delay the second dose until their symptoms resolve. They should contact their prescriber for further instruction since a delay in the second dose may alter procedure timing.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Two bottles PO per bowel evacuation.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Two bottles PO per bowel evacuation.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Two bottles PO per bowel evacuation.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    9 to 12 years: Two bottles PO per bowel evacuation.
Younger than 9 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 30 mL/minute or more: Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears no dosage adjustments are needed; manufacturer recommends caution. Ensure adequate hydration in patients with renal impairment.
CrCl 30 mL/minute or less: Contraindicated.
