=== Meprobamate (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 375)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Meprobamate is an oral carbamate derivative used as an anxiolytic.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 2400 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, headache, paresthesias, seizures, vertigo, visual impairment, weakness, hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, syncope, euphoria, physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal

In an Overdose: Meprobamate should be prescribed in the smallest quantity consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose. ataxia Moderate Incidence From Incidence To dizziness Minor Incidence From Incidence To drowsiness...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Meprobamate is contraindicated in patients with a known carbamate hypersensitivity, which includes the following compounds: felbamate, carisoprodol, carbromal, tybamate, and mebutamate. Some formulations of meprobamate contain tartrazine dye and should be avoided in patients who experience a severe...

Brand Names
  - MB-Tab
  - Miltown

Dosage Forms
  - Meprobamate 200mg Oral tablet
  - Meprobamate 400mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1,200 mg to 1,600 mg/day PO, given in 3 or 4 divided doses. Max: 2,400 mg/day PO, given in divided doses. Use the lowest effective dosage. Long-term use (i.e., longer than 4 months) has not been assessed in clinical studies. Periodically reassess use, and gradually reduce dosage if drug is to be withdrawn.
        Heading
        Geriatric Adults
        Dosage Description
        1,200 mg to 1,600 mg/day PO, given in 3 or 4 divided doses, is the usual adult dosage. In geriatric adults, initiate at the low end of the dosage range and titrate slowly. Use the lowest possible dosage to avoid excessive sedation. Long-term use (i.e., longer than 4 months) has not been assessed in clinical studies. Max: 2,400 mg/day PO, given in divided doses. Meprobamate is a highly addictive and sedating medication and should be avoided in geriatric individuals.
        Heading
        Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        Specific dosing for adolescents is not available. Usual pediatric dose (age 6 to 12 years) is 100 to 200 mg PO 2 to 3 times daily. The usual adult dose is 1,200 mg to 1,600 mg/day PO, given in 3 or 4 divided doses. Use the lowest effective dosage. Long-term use (i.e., longer than 4 months) has not been assessed in clinical studies. Periodically reassess use, and gradually reduce dosage if drug is to be withdrawn.
        Heading
        Children 6 to 12 years
        Dosage Description
        100 to 200 mg PO 2 to 3 times daily. Maximum daily dosage is 600 mg/day PO, given in divided doses. Use the lowest effective dosage. Long-term use (i.e., longer than 4 months) has not been assessed in clinical studies. Periodically reassess use, and gradually reduce dosage if drug is to be withdrawn.
    Heading
    For the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Meprobamate is contraindicated in patients with a known carbamate hypersensitivity, which includes the following compounds: felbamate, carisoprodol, carbromal, tybamate, and mebutamate. Some formulations of meprobamate contain tartrazine dye and should be avoided in patients who experience a severe reaction including bronchial asthma, anaphylaxis, or other life-threatening symptoms. Symptoms of tartrazine dye hypersensitivity are frequently observed in patients with a hypersensitivity to aspirin. Milder reactions to these compounds may not be contraindications to therapy with meprobamate.
 
Meprobamate is contraindicated in patients with acute intermittent porphyria because this condition can be exacerbated by therapy with this agent.
 
Ethanol intoxication must be avoided in patients taking meprobamate. Because this drug is a CNS sedative, patients should be warned against driving or operating machinery until they know how this drug affects them. Meprobamate can also cause physical or psychological drug dependence. This dependence is of considerable significance in patients with a known history of substance abuse, including alcoholism, and in patients prone to addiction or those with suicidal ideation. Careful monitoring of these patient populations is warranted, but meprobamate should be avoided, if possible.
 
Meprobamate should be administered to the elderly with caution. According to the manufacturer, clinical studies of meprobamate did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger adults. This drug is considered by some experts to be inappropriate for the elderly, unless the patient is already addicted to it, due to its propensity for addiction and over-sedation. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. The lowest possible dose should be used to avoid excessive sedation. According to OBRA regulations, meprobamate is not to be used in an elderly patient unless previously started before admission to the nursing home, or given as a single dose for a medical or dental procedure (see Dosage).
 
Prolonged and excessive dosages can precipitate a withdrawal syndrome upon abrupt discontinuation of meprobamate. This syndrome is characterized by anxiety, nausea, vomiting, tremors, ataxia, hallucinations, muscle twitches, and confusion. Convulsions also have been reported, and patients with a history of seizures are at an increased risk for developing this complication. Tapering the dose over 2—4 weeks is recommended following long-term use.
 
Meprobamate should be used with extreme caution in patients with epilepsy or other seizure disorder because seizures can be precipitated by withdrawal of this agent.
 
Meprobamate is metabolized in the liver and is excreted renally; therefore, caution should be used in patients with hepatic disease or renal impairment (including renal failure) (see Dosage) to avoid drug accumulation.
 
Meprobamate is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category D. The use of meprobamate during pregnancy has been associated with congenital malformations. This is of particular significance during the first 6 weeks of pregnancy. It is recommended that meprobamate be avoided during pregnancy whenever possible.
 
Meprobamate is excreted into breast milk; milk concentrations are reported to be 2—4 times that of maternal plasma. This drug should not be used during breast-feeding, because of the potential for adverse effects in the nursing infant such as excessive sedation.
 
This drug should be used with caution in children and is not recommended for children less than 6 years of age. Safer alternatives for pharmacologic treatment may exist for children.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Meprobamate is a carbamate and is contraindicated in people with carbamate hypersensitivity or who have had an idiosyncratic reaction to related carbamate compounds, which includes the following: felbamate, carisoprodol, carbromal, tybamate, and mebutamate.
    Headline
    acute intermittent porphyria
    General Information
    Meprobamate is contraindicated in patients with acute intermittent porphyria because this condition can be exacerbated by therapy with this agent.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    Because meprobamate is a CNS sedative, meprobamate recipients should be warned against driving or operating machinery or completing other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they know how the medication affects them. Patients should also avoid concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants, which may lead to additive CNS depression. Meprobamate also has abuse potential and can cause physical or psychological dependence. Patients should be assessed carefully for a history of a substance abuse disorder, including alcohol use disorder, before use of meprobamate. Careful monitoring is warranted, and the lowest dose for the shortest duration of treatment is advised.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Because use of meprobamate is rarely a matter of urgency, use during the first trimester of pregnancy should almost always be avoided. An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers (meprobamate, chlordiazepoxide and diazepam) during the first trimester of pregnancy was suggested in several early studies; the types of malformations reported in these studies have varied. Advise patients that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their health care provider about the desirability of discontinuing the drug. Retrospective studies of meprobamate use during human pregnancy have not consistently demonstrated an increased risk or pattern of major birth defects following exposure during the first trimester. For children exposed to meprobamate in utero, one study found no adverse effect on mental or motor development or IQ scores. Data from many decades of carisoprodol (the parent compound of meprobamate) use in pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. The effects of meprobamate in labor and delivery are unknown.
    Headline
    seizure disorder
    General Information
    Meprobamate should be used with extreme caution in people with a seizure disorder, as meprobamate may precipitate seizures.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Meprobamate is excreted into breast milk at concentrations 2 to 4 times those of maternal plasma, and the higher drug concentration in breast milk should be considered when determining use during breast-feeding. Two cases describe use of carisoprodol, the parent compound of meprobamate, during breast-feeding. In the first case, infant drug exposure through breast-feeding occurred for 6 months postpartum, and included partial formula feedings due to inadequate milk production. The infant exhibited normal psychomotor development at 6 months; no signs or symptoms of drug withdrawal were noted. Based on an estimated milk intake of 150 mL/kg/day, the relative dose of carisoprodol plus meprobamate that would have been ingested by an exclusively breast-fed infant was 4.1%. In the second case, the infant was exclusively breast-fed for 1 month postpartum during maternal use of carisoprodol. The corresponding milk to plasma ratios of carisoprodol and meprobamate were 0.3 and 1.4, respectively. An infant blood sample revealed undetectable concentrations of both drugs. Slight sedation was noted in the nursing infant; however, there were no signs or symptoms of withdrawal upon discontinuation of the drug. If treatment with meprobamate is deemed necessary, breast-feeding should be avoided at times of peak drug concentrations, and the infant should be observed for any indications of adverse events, like sedation. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for meprobamate and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from meprobamate or the underlying maternal condition.
    Headline
    hepatic failure, renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Meprobamate is metabolized in the liver and excreted by the kidney; to avoid the drug's excess accumulation, caution should be exercised in administration to people with compromised liver function (e.g., hepatic failure or impairment) or kidney function (renal impairment or renal failure).
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Meprobamate should be administered to geriatric adults with caution; use the lowest possible dosage to avoid excessive sedation. Clinical experience in the older adult indicates meprobamate is not a preferred agent for use in geriatric individuals. According to the Beers Criteria, meprobamate is considered a potentially inappropriate medication in geriatric adults and should be avoided due to the high rate of physical dependence and pronounced sedative properties of the drug. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates anxiolytic and sedative/hypnotic use in long-term care facilities. Meprobamate is a highly addictive and sedating medication which is not indicated for use in older individuals and should not be used for sedation, insomnia, or anxiety in long-term care facility residents.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Because use of meprobamate is rarely a matter of urgency, use during the first trimester of pregnancy should almost always be avoided. An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers (meprobamate, chlordiazepoxide and diazepam) during the first trimester of pregnancy was suggested in several early studies; the types of malformations reported in these studies have varied. Advise patients that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their health care provider about the desirability of discontinuing the drug. Retrospective studies of meprobamate use during human pregnancy have not consistently demonstrated an increased risk or pattern of major birth defects following exposure during the first trimester. For children exposed to meprobamate in utero, one study found no adverse effect on mental or motor development or IQ scores. Data from many decades of carisoprodol (the parent compound of meprobamate) use in pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. The effects of meprobamate in labor and delivery are unknown.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Meprobamate is excreted into breast milk at concentrations 2 to 4 times those of maternal plasma, and the higher drug concentration in breast milk should be considered when determining use during breast-feeding. Two cases describe use of carisoprodol, the parent compound of meprobamate, during breast-feeding. In the first case, infant drug exposure through breast-feeding occurred for 6 months postpartum, and included partial formula feedings due to inadequate milk production. The infant exhibited normal psychomotor development at 6 months; no signs or symptoms of drug withdrawal were noted. Based on an estimated milk intake of 150 mL/kg/day, the relative dose of carisoprodol plus meprobamate that would have been ingested by an exclusively breast-fed infant was 4.1%. In the second case, the infant was exclusively breast-fed for 1 month postpartum during maternal use of carisoprodol. The corresponding milk to plasma ratios of carisoprodol and meprobamate were 0.3 and 1.4, respectively. An infant blood sample revealed undetectable concentrations of both drugs. Slight sedation was noted in the nursing infant; however, there were no signs or symptoms of withdrawal upon discontinuation of the drug. If treatment with meprobamate is deemed necessary, breast-feeding should be avoided at times of peak drug concentrations, and the infant should be observed for any indications of adverse events, like sedation. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for meprobamate and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from meprobamate or the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate and dihydrocodeine can potentiate the effects of dihydrocodeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of dihydrocodeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate with codeine can potentiate the effects of codeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of codeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with meprobamate may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. Drugs that may cause additive CNS effects include anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of oxycodone with meprobamate may lead to additive respiratory and/or CNS depression. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. If meprobamate is used concurrently with oxycodone, a reduced dosage of oxycodone and/or meprobamate is recommended; use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. Monitor for sedation and respiratory depression.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alfentanil with meprobamate can potentiate the effects of alfentanil on respiration, CNS depression, sedation, and hypotension. Both the magnitude and duration of CNS and cardiovascular effects may be enhanced. Postoperative respiratory depression associated with alfentanil may also be augmented. Dose reductions of one or both drugs may be needed.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Amobarbital: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) CNS depressants should be combined cautiously with amoxapine because they could cause additive depressant effects and possible respiratory depression or hypotension.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Asenapine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects may be seen with combination use of orphenadrine and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of carisoprodol and meprobamate is not recommended. Meprobamate is an active metabolite of carisoprodol. (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate with codeine can potentiate the effects of codeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of codeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of oxycodone with meprobamate may lead to additive respiratory and/or CNS depression. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. If meprobamate is used concurrently with oxycodone, a reduced dosage of oxycodone and/or meprobamate is recommended; use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. Monitor for sedation and respiratory depression.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Azelastine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine is combined with CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine is combined with CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of baclofen and CNS depressants such as certain sedatives or hypnotics can cause additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during coadministration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Barbiturates: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate and opium can potentiate the effects of opium, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Benztropine: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of benztropine.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Brimonidine; Brinzolamide: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concurrent use of meprobamate and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs because of the potential for additive pharmacological effects. Sedation, coma, or respiratory depression may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concurrent use of meprobamate and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs because of the potential for additive pharmacological effects. Sedation, coma, or respiratory depression may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
busPIRone: (Moderate) The combination of buspirone and other CNS depressants can increase the risk for sedation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate with codeine can potentiate the effects of codeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of codeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate with codeine can potentiate the effects of codeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of codeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with other CNS depressants, such as meprobamate, can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants, such as certain sedatives and hypnotics, can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects are possible during coadministration of COMT inhibitors and meprobamate. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Carisoprodol: (Major) Concomitant use of carisoprodol and meprobamate is not recommended. Meprobamate is an active metabolite of carisoprodol.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Tramadol use increases the risk of CNS depression and respiratory depression when used with other agents that are CNS depressants such as meprobamate. Extreme caution is needed in using tramadol at the same time as other CNS depressants. A reduced dose of tramadol is recommended when used with another CNS depressant.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and meprobamate. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with meprobamate should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with meprobamate should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate with codeine can potentiate the effects of codeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of codeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with meprobamate may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. Drugs that may cause additive CNS effects include anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of chlorzoxazone and CNS depressants such as certain sedatives or hypnotics can cause additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Clemastine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of clobazam with other CNS depressant drugs including sedatives and hypnotics, can potentiate the CNS effects (i.e., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate with codeine can potentiate the effects of codeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of codeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate with codeine can potentiate the effects of codeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of codeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate with codeine can potentiate the effects of codeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of codeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate with codeine can potentiate the effects of codeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of codeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate with codeine can potentiate the effects of codeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of codeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate with codeine can potentiate the effects of codeine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A reduced dosage of codeine and/or meprobamate may be recommended. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects are possible during coadministration of COMT inhibitors and meprobamate. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Cyclobenzaprine may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of dantrolene and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase CNS depression (e.g., drowsiness). A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Daridorexant: (Major) Use of daridorexant with other sedatives and hypnotics should generally be avoided due to duplication of treatments and due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with daridorexant, a reduction in dose of one or both agents may be needed.
Desipramine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as meprobamate, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation. Advise patients about worsened somnolence and not to drive or perform other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how deutetrabenazine affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Co-administration of dexmedetomidine with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics is likely to lead to an enhancement of CNS depression.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Dicyclomine can cause drowsiness, so it should be used cautiously in patients receiving CNS depressants like anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Doxepin: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
droNABinol: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including dronabinol.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Central nervous system (CNS) depressants like meprobamate have additive or potentiating effects with droperidol. Following administration of droperidol, the dose of the other CNS depressant should be reduced.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects are possible during coadministration of COMT inhibitors and meprobamate. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and meprobamate for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Moderate) The effects of CNS depressant drugs, such as meprobamate, may increase when administered concurrently with general anesthetics. A temporary dose reduction of meprobamate should be considered following administration of general anesthetics. The risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and meprobamate. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fentanyl with meprobamate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation. A coma could result in some circumstances. If concurrent use is desired, significantly reduce the dose of fentanyl and/or meprobamate. Blood pressure and respiration monitoring to ensure the absence of hypotension and respiratory depression, respectively may be desirable.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of meprobamate and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) The effects of CNS depressant drugs, such as meprobamate, may increase when administered concurrently with general anesthetics. A temporary dose reduction of meprobamate should be considered following administration of general anesthetics. The risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, and they should be used cautiously in combination.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with meprobamate may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. Drugs that may cause additive CNS effects include anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with meprobamate may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. Drugs that may cause additive CNS effects include anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with meprobamate may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. Drugs that may cause additive CNS effects include anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydromorphone with meprobamate can potentiate the effects of hydromorphone and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression, profound sedation, or coma. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. If hydromorphone is used concurrently with meprobamate, a reduced dosage of hydromorphone and/or meprobamate is recommended; start with one-third to one-half of the estimated hydromorphone starting dose when using hydromorphone extended-release tablets. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension, CNS depression, and respiratory depression. Carbon dioxide retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Imipramine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) The effects of CNS depressant drugs, such as meprobamate, may increase when administered concurrently with general anesthetics. A temporary dose reduction of meprobamate should be considered following administration of general anesthetics. The risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ketamine: (Moderate) The effects of CNS depressant drugs, such as meprobamate, may increase when administered concurrently with general anesthetics. A temporary dose reduction of meprobamate should be considered following administration of general anesthetics. The risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and meprobamate. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Use of lemborexant with other sedatives and hypnotics should generally be avoided due to duplication of treatments and due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with lemborexant, a reduction in dose of one or both agents may be needed.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with meprobamate should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levorphanol with levorphanol can potentiate the effects of levorphanol on respiration, blood pressure, and alertness. Severe hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, or coma may occur. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. When concomitant treatment with levorphanol with another CNS depressant is necessary, reduce the dose of 1 or both drugs. The initial dose of levorphanol should be reduced by approximately 50% or more when levorphanol is used with another drug that may depress respiration.
Lithium: (Moderate) Because lithium has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills, caution is advisable during concurrent use of other medications with centrally-acting effects including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or performing any other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the combination are known.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Loxapine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Meclizine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Melatonin: (Major) Until more data are available, avoid combining melatonin with meprobamate. In a clinical trial, there was clear evidence for a transitory pharmacodynamic interaction between melatonin and another hypnotic agent one hour following co-dosing. Concomitant administration resulted in increased impairment of attention, memory and co-ordination compared to the hypnotic agent alone. Use of more than one agent for hypnotic purposes may increase the risk for over-sedation, CNS effects, or sleep-related behaviors. Be alert for unusual changes in moods or behaviors. Patients reporting unusual sleep-related behaviors likely should discontinue melatonin use.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of meprobamate and meperidine can potentiate the effects of meperidine, which may potentially lead to respiratory depression, CNS depression, sedation, or hypotensive responses. If these drugs are used together, reduce the dose of one or both drugs.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants, such as certain sedatives and hypnotics, can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Methadone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of methadone with meprobamate can lead to additive respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Methadone should be used with caution and in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; in opioid-naive adults, use an initial methadone dose of 2.5 mg every 12 hours. Also consider a using a lower dose of meprobamate. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Methohexital: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of mirtazapine and the drug's side effect profile, additive effects may occur with other CNS-active agents, including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Molindone: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including molindone. Caution is advisable during concurrent use.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Morphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of morphine with meprobamate can potentiate the effects of morphine on respiration, blood pressure, and alertness. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. If meprobamate is used concurrently with morphine, a reduced dosage of morphine and/or meprobamate is recommended; for extended-release products, start with the lowest possible dose of morphine (i.e., 15 mg PO every 12 hours, extended-release tablets; 30 mg or less PO every 24 hours; extended-release capsules). Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including nalbuphine.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of oliceridine with meprobamate may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with meprobamate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Opicapone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects are possible during coadministration of COMT inhibitors and meprobamate. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects may be seen with combination use of orphenadrine and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of oxycodone with meprobamate may lead to additive respiratory and/or CNS depression. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. If meprobamate is used concurrently with oxycodone, a reduced dosage of oxycodone and/or meprobamate is recommended; use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. Monitor for sedation and respiratory depression.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of oxymorphone with meprobamate may produce additive CNS depressant effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. If meprobamate is used concurrently with oxymorphone, a reduced dosage of oxymorphone (1/3 to 1/2 of the usual dose) and/or meprobamate is recommended. If the extended-release oxymorphone tablets are used concurrently with a CNS depressant, it is recommended to use an initial dosage of 5 mg PO every 12 hours. Monitor for sedation or respiratory depression.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Papaverine is a benzylisoquinoline alkaloid of opium and may have synergistic effects with potent CNS depressants such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, which could lead to enhanced sedation.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pentazocine with meprobamate can potentiate respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation. Pentazocine should be used cautiously meprobamate. If concurrent use is necessary, a dose reduction of one or both medications may be required.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Perampanel: (Contraindicated) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as meprobamate.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone. (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary. (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs (e.g., anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics) with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents. Monitor for increased CNS effects if coadministering.
Pimozide: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of both meprobamate and pimozide can be potentiated with concomitant administration.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of meprobamate and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Primidone: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
Propofol: (Moderate) The effects of CNS depressant drugs, such as meprobamate, may increase when administered concurrently with general anesthetics. A temporary dose reduction of meprobamate should be considered following administration of general anesthetics. The risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Ramelteon is a sleep-promoting agent; therefore, additive pharmacodynamic effects are possible when combining ramelteon with benzodiazepines or other miscellaneous anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Pharmacokinetic interactions have been observed with the use of zolpidem. Use of ramelteon 8 mg/day for 11 days and a single dose of zolpidem 10 mg resulted in an increase in the median Tmax of zolpidem of about 20 minutes; exposure to zolpidem was unchanged. Ramelteon use with hypnotics of any kind is considered duplicative therapy and these drugs are generally not co-administered.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of MAOIs can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including buprenorphine, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Use these drugs cautiously with MAOIs; warn patients to not drive or perform other hazardous activities until they know how a particular drug combination affects them. In some cases, the dosages of the CNS depressants may need to be reduced.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of remifentanil with meprobamate can potentiate the effects of remifentanil on respiration, CNS depression, sedation, and hypotension. Both the magnitude and duration of CNS and cardiovascular effects may be enhanced. Postoperative respiratory depression associated with remifentanil may also be augmented. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Rotigotine: (Moderate) A reduction in the dose of anxiolytics, sedatives, hypnotics and concomitantly administered dopamine agonists with sedative properties (e.g., ropinirole, pramipexole, rotigotine, apomorphine) should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Secobarbital: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of selegiline with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) The effects of CNS depressant drugs, such as meprobamate, may increase when administered concurrently with general anesthetics. A temporary dose reduction of meprobamate should be considered following administration of general anesthetics. The risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and meprobamate. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sufentanil with meprobamate can potentiate the effects of sufentanil on respiration, CNS depression, sedation, and hypotension. Both the magnitude and duration of CNS and cardiovascular effects may be enhanced. Postoperative respiratory depression associated with sufentanil may also be augmented. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Use of suvorexant with other sedatives and hypnotics should generally be avoided due to duplication of treatments and due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with suvorexant, a reduction in dose of one or both of these agents may be needed.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with other CNS depressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with anotehr CNS depressant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Thalidomide: (Major) The use of anxiolytics, sedatives, or hypnotics concomitantly with thalidomide may cause an additive sedative effect and should be avoided. Thalidomide frequently causes drowsiness and somnolence. Dose reductions may be required. Patients should be instructed to avoid situations where drowsiness may be a problem and not to take other medications that may cause drowsiness without adequate medical advice. Advise patients as to the possible impairment of mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks, such as driving a car or operating other complex or dangerous machinery.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Coadministration of meprobamate and thiothixene may result in additive CNS depressant effects.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of tizanidine with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects are possible during coadministration of COMT inhibitors and meprobamate. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs (e.g., anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics) with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents. Monitor for increased CNS effects if coadministering.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Moderate) Tramadol use increases the risk of CNS depression and respiratory depression when used with other agents that are CNS depressants such as meprobamate. Extreme caution is needed in using tramadol at the same time as other CNS depressants. A reduced dose of tramadol is recommended when used with another CNS depressant.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Tramadol use increases the risk of CNS depression and respiratory depression when used with other agents that are CNS depressants such as meprobamate. Extreme caution is needed in using tramadol at the same time as other CNS depressants. A reduced dose of tramadol is recommended when used with another CNS depressant.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
traZODone: (Moderate) Meprobamate should be used cautiously in patients receiving trazodone because of additive CNS-depressant effects, including possible respiratory depression or hypotension. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered with other CNS depressant drugs and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of hypnotics and other CNS depressants than with use of a hypnotic alone.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of trihexyphenidyl.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Major) Patients who are taking sedative/hypnotic drugs should generally avoid concomitant administration of valerian. Any substances that act on the CNS, including sedatives and hypnotics, may theoretically interact with valerian, Valeriana officinalis. The valerian derivative, dihydrovaltrate, binds at barbiturate binding sites; valerenic acid has been shown to inhibit enzyme-induced breakdown of GABA in the brain; the non-volatile monoterpenes (valepotriates) have sedative activity. These interactions are probably pharmacodynamic in nature. There is a possibility of interaction with valerian at normal prescription dosages of sedatives and hypnotics.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Meprobamate has been associated with a decreased anticoagulation response to warfarin. Monitor coagulation parameters and adjust warfarin dosage as needed.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Patients taking sedatives with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of sedative cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Anorexia, nausea/vomiting, and diarrhea are frequently reported gastrointestinal effects during therapy with meprobamate.Frequently reported CNS adverse reactions during therapy with meprobamate include drowsiness and ataxia. Dizziness, dysarthria (slurred speech), headache, vertigo, weakness, and paresthesias occur less commonly. Paradoxical CNS stimulation has been reported, which results in fast EEG activity. Rebound REM sleep can occur following discontinuation of therapy due to suppression of REM sleep.Cardiovascular effects during therapy with meprobamate include palpitations, sinus tachycardia, transient ECG changes, syncope, and hypotension. More severe reactions include various cardiac arrhythmias and hypotensive crises (including one fatality).Allergic or idiosyncratic reactions can occur in patients previously untreated with meprobamate. Patients with a history of allergy or hypersensitivity to the drug or related drugs ( e.g., carisoprodol) are more susceptible and reactions are generally apparent by the fourth or fifth dose of meprobamate. These reactions are generally mild and include urticaria, or an erythematous maculopapular rash. The rash may be confined to the groin area or be more generalized. Other reactions can include acute nonthrombocytopenic purpura, leukopenia, petechiae, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, peripheral edema, adenopathy, fever, and fixed drug eruption, with cross-reaction to carisoprodol. More serious hypersensitivity reactions are rare. However, the following reactions have been reported: hyperpyrexia, chills, angioedema, bronchospasm, oliguria, and anuria. Also, anaphylactoid reactions, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, stomatitis, proctitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and bullous rash. If any allergic or idiosyncratic reaction develops, meprobamate therapy should be withdrawn and appropriate symptomatic therapy initiated. Therapy with meprobamate produces severe hematological reactions in fewer than 1% of patients. Agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and thrombocytopenic purpura also have been reported; these cases rarely had a fatal outcome. Exacerbation of porphyria has occurred in predisposed patients.Patients can develop physiological dependence or psychological dependence while on meprobamate. After prolonged use, symptoms of ataxia, dysarthria, and vertigo may develop. Sudden withdrawal of meprobamate can produce withdrawal symptoms including vomiting, ataxia, tremors, muscle twitching, confusion, hallucinations, and occasionally seizures. Pre-existing symptoms such as anxiety, anorexia, or insomnia may also emerge. Withdrawal symptoms occur within 12—48 hours of discontinuation of therapy. After prolonged use of meprobamate, dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of one to two weeks to minimize withdrawal symptoms.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anorexia, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects including anorexia, nausea/vomiting, and diarrhea have been reported during therapy with meprobamate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, headache, paresthesias, seizures, vertigo, visual impairment, weakness
    General Information
    Meprobamate is a CNS depressant, and many of the adverse effects of the drug are centrally-mediated. Drowsiness occurs frequently. Other adverse CNS effects include dizziness, ataxia, dysarthria (slurred speech), headache, vertigo, weakness, impairment of visual accommodation (visual impairment), and paresthesias. Paradoxical CNS stimulation can occur rarely, and results in fast EEG activity. Rebound REM sleep can occur following discontinuation of therapy due to suppression of REM sleep. Meprobamate may precipitate seizures in patients with epilepsy. The lowest effective dose should be used in elderly or debilitated patients to reduce the likelihood of oversedation. Because meprobamate can cause significant sedation, patients should be informed to avoid driving or performing other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the drug affects them. The possibility of suicidal attempt should be considered when prescribing meprobamate. Suicide attempts with meprobamate have resulted in drowsiness, lethargy, stupor, ataxia, coma, shock, vasomotor collapse, respiratory collapse, and in some instances, fatalities. Meprobamate should be prescribed in the smallest quantity consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, syncope
    General Information
    Cardiovascular effects that have been reported during therapy with meprobamate include palpitations, sinus tachycardia, transient ECG changes, syncope, and hypotension. More severe reactions include various cardiac arrhythmias and hypotensive crises (including one fatality).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, anuria, aplastic anemia, bronchospasm, bullous rash, chills, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, fever, leukopenia, maculopapular rash, oliguria, peripheral edema, petechiae, porphyria, proctitis, pruritus, purpura, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, stomatitis, urticaria
    General Information
    Allergic or idiosyncratic reactions can occur in patients previously untreated with meprobamate. Patients with a history of allergy or hypersensitivity to the drug or related drugs (e.g., carisoprodol) are more susceptible and reactions are generally apparent by the fourth or fifth dose of meprobamate. These reactions are generally mild and include an erythematous maculopapular rash with urticaria and pruritus. The rash may be confined to the groin area or be more generalized. Other reactions can include acute nonthrombocytopenic purpura, leukopenia, petechiae, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, peripheral edema, adenopathy, fever, and fixed drug eruption, with cross-reaction to carisoprodol. More serious hypersensitivity reactions are rare. However, the following reactions have been reported: hyperpyrexia, chills, angioedema, bronchospasm, oliguria, anuria, anaphylactoid reactions, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, stomatitis, proctitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and bullous rash. If any allergic or idiosyncratic reaction develops, meprobamate therapy should be withdrawn and appropriate symptomatic therapy initiated. Therapy with meprobamate produces severe hematological reactions in fewer than 1% of patients. Agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and thrombocytopenic purpura also have been reported; however, these cases rarely had a fatal outcome. Exacerbation of porphyria has occurred in predisposed patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anuria
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      aplastic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      eosinophilia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      oliguria
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      petechiae
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      porphyria
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      proctitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    euphoria, physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal
    General Information
    Patients can develop physiological dependence or psychological dependence with meprobamate use. Euphoria and abuse of meprobamate have been reported. After prolonged use of excessive dosages, symptoms of ataxia, dysarthria, and vertigo may develop. Sudden withdrawal of meprobamate can produce withdrawal symptoms including vomiting, ataxia, tremors, muscle twitching, confusion, hallucinations, and occasionally seizures. Pre-existing symptoms such as anxiety, anorexia, or insomnia may also emerge. Withdrawal symptoms occur within 12 to 48 hours of discontinuation of therapy. After prolonged use of excessive doses of meprobamate, the dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of 1 to 2 weeks to minimize withdrawal symptoms.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Meprobamate is an oral carbamate derivative used as an anxiolytic. Meprobamate is similar in structure to carisoprodol; in fact, meprobamate is an active metabolite of carisoprodol. Meprobamate is indicated for the treatment of anxiety disorders or for the short-term symptomatic treatment of anxiety in adults and children 6 years and older; however, historically the drug has also been used for its sedative properties. Due to the availability of other therapies, meprobamate is not considered a treatment of choice for anxiety disorders in adults or pediatric patients. Clinical studies evaluating its effectiveness for prolonged therapy (more than 4 months) have not been conducted. Meprobamate is known to have potential for physical dependence, psychological dependence, and abuse. Meprobamate was initially marketed in the U.S. in 1955.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Meprobamate's exact mechanism of action is unknown. Meprobamate appears to exert CNS-depressive action at several sites in the CNS including the spinal cord, limbic system, hypothalamus, and thalamus. Skeletal muscle relaxation is believed to occur secondary to the sedative effect and is of negligible clinical significance. Overdosage can cause vasomotor and respiratory depression and coma.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration, meprobamate is readily absorbed from the GI tract. Peak plasma concentrations are achieved in 1—3 hours, with the onset of sedation occurring within 1 hour.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Due to the sedation produced by meprobamate, dosage and/or interval adjustments in the presence of hepatic disease are recommended (see Dosage).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Due to the sedation produced by meprobamate, dosage and/or interval adjustments in the presence of renal insufficiency are recommended (see Dosage).
  Text
  Meprobamate is administered orally. The drug is distributed throughout the body. Meprobamate crosses the placenta in concentrations similar to maternal plasma concentrations and is distributed into breast milk in amounts 2—4 times those of maternal plasma concentrations (see Contraindications). Meprobamate is metabolized in the liver to inactive metabolites consisting of 2—hydroxymeprobamate and glucosyluronide and glucuronide conjugates. Meprobamate is an inducer of hepatic enzymes. The plasma half-life is 10—11 hours. Renal elimination of unchanged meprobamate is approximately 10—12% of a dose within 24 hours, with the remainder occurring as metabolites.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Meprobamate is administered orally.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    2400 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    2400 mg/day PO; lower dosages are often adequate.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Maximum dosage for adolescent patients is not clear; usual pediatric dose maximum is 600 mg/day PO; usual adult dose is 1200 mg to 1600 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    6 to 12 years: 600 mg/day PO.
Less than 6 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Modify dosage depending on clinical response and degree of hepatic impairment to avoid drug accumulation, but no quantitative recommendations are available.
  Renal Impairment
  Modify dosage depending on clinical response and degree of renal impairment to avoid drug accumulation, but no quantitative recommendations are available from the package labeling; monitor closely for excessive sedation.
One reference recommends the following dosage interval adjustments for adults:
CrCl more than 50 mL/minute: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl 10 to 50 mL/minute: Extend dosing interval to every 9 to 12 hours (e.g., give 300 or 400 mg every 12 hours).
CrCl less than 10 mL/minute: Extend dosing interval to every 12 to 18 hours.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
See dosage for CrCl less than 10 mL/minute for adults. While meprobamate appears to be dialyzable, supplemental doses are not recommended following a dialysis session.
