=== Alfuzosin — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2647)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alfuzosin is an oral short-acting, selective alpha-1 receptor antagonist.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthenia, confusion, diaphoresis, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, insomnia, angina, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, sinus tachycardia, syncope, vertigo, ejaculation dysfunction, impotence (erectile dysfunction), priapism, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, angioedema, erythema, flushing, pruritus

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Alfuzosin has a quinazoline structure similar to some of the other alpha-1 blockers, including prazosin, doxazosin, and terazosin.

ALFUZOSIN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Uroxatral

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)

Oral dosage
Adults


10 mg PO once daily.


For the treatment of distal uretal nephrolithiasis† as an adjunct to conservative management

Oral dosage
Adults


10 mg PO once daily until definite stone passage or 28 days. Consider alfuzosin for individuals with stones of more than 5 to 10 mm.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Alfuzosin has a quinazoline structure similar to some of the other alpha-1 blockers, including prazosin, doxazosin, and terazosin. There is a potential for cross-reactivity among alpha-blockers, particularly those with similar chemical structures.

activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


As with other alpha-adrenergic antagonists, alfuzosin may cause orthostatic hypotension (postural hypotension, dizziness, and/or vertigo), which can lead to syncope. People starting treatment with alfuzosin should be cautioned to avoid situations where syncope could result in an injury, such as driving or operating machinery or completing other activities requiring coordination and concentration, until they are reasonably certain that alfuzosin does not affect them adversely.


bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation


Use alfuzosin with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk.


Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Alfuzosin is contraindicated in people with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B and Child-Pugh class C) and hepatic failure because alfuzosin plasma concentrations are significantly increased in these patients. Caution should be exercised when using alfuzosin in people with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A).


renal failure, renal impairment


Use alfuzosin with caution in people with severe renal impairment or renal failure (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute), as limited safety data are available. Safety data in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment during clinical trials was similar to patients with normal renal function.


planned procedure


The initiation of alfuzosin is not recommended for people who have a planned procedure for cataract or glaucoma surgery scheduled. Use caution in patients currently taking alfuzosin who will have these procedures. Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during ocular surgery for cataracts and glaucoma in patients on or previously treated with alpha-1 blockers, including alfuzosin. This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation current, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic medications, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. The patient's surgeon should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. There does not appear to be a benefit in stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy such as alfuzosin prior to cataract surgery.


pregnancy


The safety and efficacy of alfuzosin during pregnancy has not been established. There are no adequate human data on drug-associated risk in pregnant people. Alfuzosin was not teratogenic, embryotoxic, or fetotoxic in rats at plasma exposure concentrations (based on AUC) up to 1,200-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 10 mg/day. In rabbits administered up to 3-times the MRHD (based on body surface area) no embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity was observed. Gestation was slightly prolonged in rats at exposure levels approximately 12-times the MRHD, but difficulties with parturition were not observed.


breast-feeding


There is no indicated use of alfuzosin in breast-feeding people. There are no data on the presence of alfuzosin in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.


Pregnancy And Lactation


The safety and efficacy of alfuzosin during pregnancy has not been established. There are no adequate human data on drug-associated risk in pregnant people. Alfuzosin was not teratogenic, embryotoxic, or fetotoxic in rats at plasma exposure concentrations (based on AUC) up to 1,200-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 10 mg/day. In rabbits administered up to 3-times the MRHD (based on body surface area) no embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity was observed. Gestation was slightly prolonged in rats at exposure levels approximately 12-times the MRHD, but difficulties with parturition were not observed.


Interactions

Acebutolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alfuzosin and adagrasib is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure and the additive risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Alpha-blockers: (Major) Alfuzosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between alfuzosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Ambrisentan: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensives, such as ambrisentan, has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor the ECG in patients taking amisulpride with alfuzosin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with clarithromycin due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Additive effects on the QT interval may also occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate that may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Anagrelide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include alfuzosin.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and alfuzosin together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur with multi-day regimens of oral aprepitant, resulting in increased alfuzosin-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. When administered as a single oral or single intravenous dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak and did not result in a clinically significant increase in the AUC of a sensitive substrate.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Arsenic trioxide administration is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Avoid the use of arsenic trioxide with other agents that may prolong the QT interval or increase the risk of torsades de pointes. If possible, drugs with potential to prolong the QT interval should be discontinued prior to beginning arsenic trioxide therapy. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg, but the effect with alfuzosin 40 mg was not as great as the QT prolongation observed with therapeutic doses of moxifloxacin. There have been no reports of torsades de pointes (TdP) in extensive post-marketing experience with alfuzosin outside the United States. There are no known pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic studies of the effect of other alpha-blockers on cardiac repolarization. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients with a known history of cardiac arrhythmias, QT prolongation (e.g., congenital or acquired QT prolongation), history of torsades de pointes, or patients who are taking medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring alfuzosin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Alfuzosin has a slight QT prolonging effect, based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. (Major) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if alfuzosin must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Alfuzosin has a slight QT prolonging effect, based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg.
Asenapine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as alfuzosin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Coadministration is expected to reduce the metabolism and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin. Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold. (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Atenolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with avacopan. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Avanafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on alfuzosin therapy before initiating therapy with avanafil at the lowest dose. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of avanafil should be started on the lowest dose of alfuzosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of avanafil and alfuzosin.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with alfuzosin due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering bedaquiline with alfuzosin. Bedaquiline has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy. Alfuzosin also has a slight QT prolonging effect, based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with berotralstat. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with lenacapavir. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Buprenorphine should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with should be used cautiously and with alfuzosin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Buprenorphine should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with should be used cautiously and with alfuzosin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with alfuzosin. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation and alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Carteolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with ceritinib due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Additive effects on the QT interval may also occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate that may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor that also causes concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with chloramphenicol due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes; strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as chloramphenicol, block the metabolism of alfuzosin and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Chloroprocaine: (Major) Alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval, and should be used cautiously in combination with other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as local anesthetics.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with alfuzosin due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), alfuzosin and chlorpromazine should be used together cautiously. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Concurrent use may result in additive QT prolongation.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Alfuzosin is extensively metabolized by hepatic enzymes. Administration of of cimetidine, an inhibitor of hepatic cytochrome P450, with alfuzosin may increase the serum concentration of alfuzosin.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride and alfuzosin is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Citalopram: (Major) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), concurrent use of alfuzosin and citalopram should be avoided if possible. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. Citalopram causes dose-dependent QT interval prolongation. According to its manufacturer, concurrent use of citalopram with other drugs that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. If concurrent therapy is considered essential, ECG monitoring is recommended.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with clarithromycin due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Additive effects on the QT interval may also occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate that may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with clozapine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Coadministration is expected to reduce the metabolism and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin. Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with conivaptan. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin overall exposure by 1.3-fold.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with alfuzosin due to the risk of QT prolongation; increased alfuzosin exposure may also occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Also monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects (e.g., hypotension). Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate that, based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor that has also been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Coadministration is expected to reduce the metabolism and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin. Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold. (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Coadministration is expected to reduce the metabolism and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin. Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold. (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Use dasatinib with caution in combination with alfuzosin. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Desflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with alfuzosin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Use caution during coadministration of alfuzosin and deutetrabenazine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Alfuzosin should be used cautiously with quinidine. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Alfuzosin and diltiazem may have additive vasodilatory actions; concurrent use of these agents can result in hypotension. Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by the CYP3A4 hepatic enzyme. Diltiazem, a moderately potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, increases the Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin; alfuzosin increases both the Cmax and AUC of diltiazem, however, no changes in blood pressure are reported.
Disopyramide: (Major) Alfuzosin should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with disopyramide. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and alfuzosin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with alfuzosin. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation and alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Use donepezil with caution in combination with alfuzosin due to the potential for QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Use donepezil with caution in combination with alfuzosin due to the potential for QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Doxazosin: (Major) Alfuzosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between alfuzosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and alfuzosin is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce Torsade de Pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving other agents that may prolong the QT interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with droperidol include alfuzosin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with duvelisib. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering alfuzosin with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated alfuzosin plasma concentrations. Alfuzosin is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with eliglustat due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prlong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Additionally, eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prlongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Coadministration is expected to reduce the metabolism and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin. Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Coadministration is expected to reduce the metabolism and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin. Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with alfuzosin. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation and alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with alfuzosin. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation and alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and alfuzosin due to QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Encorafenib is associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alfuzosin and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with alfuzosin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
eriBULin: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as alfuzosin, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), alfuzosin and erythromycin should be used together cautiously. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Erythromycin administration is associated with QT prolongation and TdP. In addition, coadministration of erythromycin, a CYP3A4 inhibitor, with alfuzosin, a CYP3A4 substrate, may result in elevated alfuzosin plasma concentrations.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of escitalopram and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Esmolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with fedratinib. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Felodipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of alpha-blockers with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on alfuzosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of alfuzosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue alfuzosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and alfuzosin.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with fingolimod due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Additionally, fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering alfuzosin with flecainide. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight QT prolonging effect. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. Flecainide, a Class IC antiarrhythmic, is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP; although, the increase in QT interval is largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of life-threatening arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP), coadministration of fluconazole with drugs that both prolong the QT interval and are CYP3A4 substrates, such as alfuzosin, is contraindicated. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of TdP. Additonally, fluconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration may result in elevated plasma concentrations of alfuzosin, causing an increased risk for adverse events, such as QT prolongation.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with fluphenazine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Fluphenazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Use fluvoxamine with caution in combination with alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported during fluvoxamine postmarketing use. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Food: (Moderate) Alfuzosin extended-release tablets should be taken with food at the same time each day. Alfuzosin absolute bioavailability is 49 percent under fed conditions; under fasting conditions, the extent of absorption is 50 percent lower.
Fosamprenavir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as alfuzosin. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with gemifloxacin due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and alfuzosin together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and alfuzosin is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with alfuzosin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving alfuzosin. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Use granisetron with caution in combination with alfuzosin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during alfuzosin treatment due to the risk for increased alfuzosin exposure and adverse reactions. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with alfuzosin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Caution is advisable when combining haloperidol concurrently with alfuzosin. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-depndent manner.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving alfuzosin. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) The manufacturer of alfuzosin warns that concurrent use with nitrates has the potential to cause hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, or syncope. Caution is advisable when coadministering alfuzosin and a nitrate to patients with symptomatic hypotension or those who have had a previous hypotensive response to either agent.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alfuzosin and idelalisib is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Iloperidone: (Major) Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; however, torsade de pointes has not been reported. According to the manufacturer, since iloperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided with other agents also known to have this effect, such as alfuzosin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Iloprost: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of alpha-blockers with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes; inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as imatinib, are expected to inhibit alfuzosin metabolism and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin.
Indapamide: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Decreased indapamide dosages may be necessary during concomitant use.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with alfuzosin due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with alfuzosin may result in increased serum concentrations of alfuzosin. Alfuzosin is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with alfuzosin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) The manufacturer of alfuzosin warns that concurrent use with nitrates has the potential to cause hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, or syncope. Caution is advisable when coadministering alfuzosin and a nitrate to patients with symptomatic hypotension or those who have had a previous hypotensive response to either agent.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) The manufacturer of alfuzosin warns that concurrent use with nitrates has the potential to cause hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, or syncope. Caution is advisable when coadministering alfuzosin and a nitrate to patients with symptomatic hypotension or those who have had a previous hypotensive response to either agent.
Isradipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of alpha-blockers with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Use of alfuzosin with itraconazole is contraindicated as potentially increased alfuzosin concentrations can result in hypotension, and potentially life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia. Use is not recommended for 2 weeks after completion of itraconazole therapy. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with alfuzosin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alfuzosin with ketoconazole is contraindicated as potentially increased alfuzosin concentrations can result in hypotension, and potentially life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Labetalol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Landiolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with clarithromycin due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Additive effects on the QT interval may also occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate that may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if lapatinib is administered with alfuzosin. Both alfuzosin and lapatinib have been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with lenacapavir. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with alfuzosin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Coadministration of alfuzosin with letermovir may increase alfuzosin exposure and risk for adverse events. Concurrent use is contraindicated if the patient is also receiving cyclosporine because the magnitude of the interaction may be amplified. Alfuzosin is a substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with alfuzosin increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving alfuzosin. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alfuzosin with ketoconazole is contraindicated as potentially increased alfuzosin concentrations can result in hypotension, and potentially life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lithium and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor ECG if lofexidine is coadministered with alfuzosin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Alfuzosin is an alpha-blocker that does not commonly result in a drop in blood pressure, however, additive effects on blood pressure may also occur.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alfuzosin and lonafarnib is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of alfuzosin by decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, monitor the patient for appropriate clinical effects. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of alfuzosin by decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, monitor the patient for appropriate clinical effects. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as alfuzosin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on alfuzosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of alfuzosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue alfuzosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and alfuzosin.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Methadone: (Major) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), alfuzosin and methadone should be used together cautiously. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Laboratory studies, both in vivo and in vitro, have demonstrated that methadone inhibits cardiac potassium channels and prolongs the QT interval. Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midostaurin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and alfuzosin may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with mifepristone due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Additive effects on the QT interval may also occur. Coadministration is expected to reduce the metabolism and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation; mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has also been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and alfuzosin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of alfuzosin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of alfuzosin.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and moxifloxacin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Moxifloxacin has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Additionally, post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including TdP, usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded. Alfuzosin also has a slight QT prolonging effect, based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg.
Nadolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with nefazodone due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Coadministration is expected to reduce the metabolism and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin. Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; nefazodone is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of alpha-blockers with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of alpha-blockers with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib with other agents that prolong the QT interval, such as alfuzosin. Additionally, nilotinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and alfuzosin is a substrate of CYP3A4; administering these drugs together may result in increased alfuzosin levels. If the use of alfuzosin is necessary, hold nilotinib therapy. If these drugs are used together, consider an alfuzosin dose reduction and monitor patients for toxicity (e.g., QT interval prolongation).
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and alfuzosin is contraindicated. Consider temporary discontinuation of alfuzosin during treatment with ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and for at least 2 to 3 days after treatment completion; if not feasible, consider alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase alfuzosin exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with nirogacestat. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of alpha-blockers with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Nitrates: (Moderate) The manufacturer of alfuzosin warns that concurrent use with nitrates has the potential to cause hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, or syncope. Caution is advisable when coadministering alfuzosin and a nitrate to patients with symptomatic hypotension or those who have had a previous hypotensive response to either agent.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) The manufacturer of alfuzosin warns that concurrent use with nitrates has the potential to cause hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, or syncope. Caution is advisable when coadministering alfuzosin and a nitrate to patients with symptomatic hypotension or those who have had a previous hypotensive response to either agent.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering olanzapine with alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering olanzapine with alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering olanzapine with alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Alfuzosin is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of alfuzosin may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with alfuzosin. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alfuzosin with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor ECGs and electrolytes in patients receiving oxaliplatin and alfuzosin concomitantly; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) Caution is advised when administering alfuzosin with oxymetazoline. Alfuzosin, an alpha adrenergic blocker, would likely antagonize the sympathomimetic effects of oxymetazoline, alpha adrenergic agonists; thereby reducing the effectiveness of oxymetazoline.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking alfuzosin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as alfuzosin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. If coadministration is considered necessary by the practitioner, and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmia, close monitoring is essential.
Panobinostat: (Major) QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with panobinostat include alfuzosin.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with pasireotide due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), alfuzosin and pazopanib should be avoided. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Coadministration of pazopanib and other drugs that prolong the QT interval is not advised; pazopanib has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If pazopanib and the other drug must be continued, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Pentamidine: (Major) Pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation include alfuzosin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval; use caution in co-administration.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with perphenazine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Perphenazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with perphenazine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Perphenazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Major) Alfuzosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between alfuzosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Phentolamine: (Major) Alfuzosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between alfuzosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as alfuzosin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), use of alfuzosin with pimozide is contraindicated. Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Based on electrophysiology studies, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg.
Pindolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking alfuzosin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with posaconazole due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension and QT prolongation. Coadministration is expected to reduce the metabolism and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation; posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Prazosin: (Major) Alfuzosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between alfuzosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Procainamide: (Major) Alfuzosin should be used cautiously with procainamide. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with prochlorperazine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Prochlorperazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propranolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Protease inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Alfuzosin should be used cautiously with quinidine. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
quiNINE: (Major) Concurrent use of quinine and alfuzosin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinine has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of TdP. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin also has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. In addition, concentrations of alfuzosin may be increased with concomitant use of quinine. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and quinine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with ranolazine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alfuzosin and relacorilant is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents such as alfuzosin. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents such as alfuzosin. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of alfuzosin and ribociclib 600 mg/day is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use of ribociclib 400 mg/day if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by up to 3.2-fold and 1.3-fold, respectively.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of alfuzosin and ribociclib 600 mg/day is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use of ribociclib 400 mg/day if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by up to 3.2-fold and 1.3-fold, respectively.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with alfuzosin. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation and alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Use risperidone and alfuzosin together with caution due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with alfuzosin. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval and alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of selpercatinib with alfuzosin is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sertraline and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with alfuzosin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on alfuzosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest dose of sildenafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of sildenafil should be started on the lowest dose of alfuzosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of sildenafil and alfuzosin.
Silodosin: (Contraindicated) The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between alfuzosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects, therefore, alfuzosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving alfuzosin due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with solifenacin due to the potential for QT prolongation. Both alfuzosin and solifenacin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Additionally, torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported with postmarketing use of solifenacin, although causality was not determined.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with alfuzosin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Sorafenib is associated with QTc prolongation. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if sunitinib is administered with alfuzosin. Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Consider ECG and electrolyte monitoring periodically during treatment if tacrolimus is administered with alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Tacrolimus may prolong the QT interval and cause torsade de pointes (TdP). Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on alfuzosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of alfuzosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue alfuzosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and alfuzosin.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering telavancin with alfuzosin. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Decreased indapamide dosages may be necessary during concomitant use.
Terazosin: (Major) Alfuzosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between alfuzosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). The manufacturer recommends avoiding concurrent use of tetrabenazine with other drugs known to prolong QTc, such as alfuzosin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is considered contraindicated for use along with agents that, when combined with a phenothiazine, may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of TdP, and/or cause orthostatic hypotension. Because of the potential for TdP, use of alfuzosin with thioridazine is contraindicated.
Timolol: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensive agents has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Alfuzosin (2.5 mg, immediate-release) potentiated the hypotensive effects of atenolol (100 mg) in eight healthy young male volunteers. The Cmax and AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 28% and 21%, respectively. Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC of atenolol by 26% and 14%, respectively. Significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate were reported with the combination.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of alfuzosin and protease inhibitors is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with tolterodine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Tolterodine has also been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alfuzosin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of alfuzosin and verapamil is necessary. This combination has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Coadministration may also result in increased alfuzosin serum concentrations. Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by the CYP3A4 hepatic enzyme. In addition to potential for additive hypotension with alfuzosin, verapamil may also inhibit the metabolism of alfuzosin.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with trifluoperazine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Trifluoperazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving alfuzosin. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alfuzosin and tucatinib is contraindicated due to increased alfuzosin exposure. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, the AUC of alfuzosin was increased by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with alfuzosin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on alfuzosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest starting dose of vardenafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of vardenafil should be started on the lowest dose of alfuzosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of vardenafil and alfuzosin. Concurrent use of these medications may also increase the risk for QT prolongation. Vardenafil is associated with QT prolongation. Both therapeutic and supratherapeutic doses of vardenafil produce an increase in QTc interval. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. If vemurafenib and another drug, such as alfuzosin, that is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. In addition to avoiding concurrent drug interactions, the potential for TdP can be reduced by avoiding the use of QT prolonging drugs in patients at substantial risk for TdP. Examples of general risk factors for TdP include congenital long QT syndrome, female sex, elderly patients, significant bradycardia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and underlying cardiac disease (e.g., arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, acute myocardial ischemia). Also, alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate, while vemurafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and inducer; therefore, concentrations of alfuzosin may be decreased.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of alfuzosin and verapamil is necessary. This combination has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients. Coadministration may also result in increased alfuzosin serum concentrations. Alfuzosin is primarily metabolized by the CYP3A4 hepatic enzyme. In addition to potential for additive hypotension with alfuzosin, verapamil may also inhibit the metabolism of alfuzosin.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider interventions to minimize the risk of progression to torsades de pointes (TdP), such as ECG monitoring and correcting electrolyte abnormalities, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with clarithromycin due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension. Additive effects on the QT interval may also occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate that may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Alfuzosin is contraindicated for use with voriconazole due to the potential for serious/life-threatening reactions, including hypotension and QT prolongation. Coadministration is expected to reduce the metabolism and increase systemic exposure to alfuzosin. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation; voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with vorinostat due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with voxelotor. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and alfuzosin should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

In a 12-month study, 7.1% of subjects treated with alfuzosin experienced ADRs and 4.3% dropped out prematurely for safety reasons. During 3 placebo-controlled trials (n = 1,608), approximately 4% of patients receiving active drug withdrew from the studies because of adverse reactions compared to 3% of placebo patients.

asthenia, confusion, diaphoresis, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, insomnia


Central nervous system (CNS) effects occurring in 2% or more of patients receiving alfuzosin during 3 placebo-controlled trials (n = 1,608) and more frequently than placebo included dizziness (5.7%), fatigue (2.7%), and headache (3%). Dizziness may occur in conjunction with orthostasis. Centrally-mediated adverse reactions reported during alfuzosin therapy in other clinical trial evaluations include asthenia, confusion, pain (unspecified) (1% to 2%), diaphoresis, insomnia, nervousness, and somnolence (drowsiness). A relatively low incidence of CNS-related side effects has been attributed to the drug's low penetration into the CNS.


angina, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, sinus tachycardia, syncope, vertigo


Cardiovascular effects that occurred during treatment with alfuzosin in 3 placebo-controlled trials (n = 1,608) and more frequently than placebo included hypotension or orthostatic hypotension (0.4%) and syncope (0.2%). Approximately 20% to 30% of patients were taking antihypertensive medication. In a 2-month study (n = 4,018) evaluating the effects of age on the efficacy of alfuzosin, 99 (2.4%) of patients experienced at least 1 drug-related adverse reaction, and 50 (1.2%) patients withdrew from the study due to a drug-related event. Of the 50 patients who withdrew, 30 experienced a vasodilatory adverse reaction (e.g., headache, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, vertigo/dizziness, sinus tachycardia, edema of the legs). Asymptomatic orthostatic hypotension occurred in 0.6% of patients. Other cardiovascular effects reported during other clinical trial evaluation of alfuzosin included edema, hypotension, myocardial infarction, and sinus bradycardia. Postmarketing adverse reactions include chest pain (unspecified), sinus tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, edema, and angina pectoris in patients with coronary artery disease; however the frequencies are unknown. Alfuzosin should be discontinued if angina occurs or if it recurs or worsens in patients who are receiving therapy for coronary artery disease.


ejaculation dysfunction, impotence (erectile dysfunction), priapism


Impotence (erectile dysfunction) was reported in 1% to 2% of patients receiving alfuzosin during 3 placebo-controlled trials (n = 1,608). In a 2-month study (n = 4,018) evaluating the effects of age on the efficacy of alfuzosin, impotence was reported in 3 patients. Ejaculation dysfunction has been reported rarely. In rare (estimated less than 1 in 50,000) cases, alfuzosin, like other alpha adrenergic antagonists, has been associated with priapism (persistent painful penile erection unrelated to sexual activity); priapism has been reported postmarketing. If not treated properly and promptly, priapism can result in irreversible damage to the penile tissue and permanent erectile dysfunction. Advise patients about the serious nature of this condition and to seek emergency medical attention if priapism occurs.


infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis


Upper respiratory infection (3% incidence) occurred in 2% or more of patients receiving alfuzosin during 3 placebo-controlled trials (n = 1,608) and more frequently than placebo). Less frequently occurring (1% to 2%) effects included bronchitis, pharyngitis, and sinusitis. Rhinitis has been reported during post-marketing use of the drug; however, the frequency is unknown.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastritis, nausea, vomiting


Gastrointestinal (GI) effects reported in 1% to 2% of patients receiving alfuzosin during 3 placebo-controlled trials (n = 1,608) included abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, and nausea. GI effects reported during other clinical trial evaluations of alfuzosin include diarrhea and gastritis. Diarrhea and vomiting have been reported during postmarketing use of the drug; however, the frequency is unknown.


angioedema, erythema, flushing, pruritus, rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Adverse effects during alfuzosin administration include allergic reactions such as rash (unspecified), pruritus, urticaria, and erythematous rash (erythema). Rash (unspecified), pruritus, urticaria, flushing, angioedema, and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported during postmarketing use of the drug; however, the frequencies are unknown.


cholestasis, hepatitis, jaundice


The manufacturer has received reports of hepatocellular and cholestatic liver injury, including cases with jaundice, during postmarketing use of alfuzosin. One case of acute mixed hepatitis with cholestasis and jaundice has been reported; recovery occurred after de-challenge.


QT prolongation


Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg, but the effect with alfuzosin 40 mg was not as great as the QT prolongation observed with therapeutic doses of moxifloxacin. However, there have been no reports of torsade de pointes in extensive postmarketing experience with alfuzosin outside the United States. There are no known pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic studies of the effect of other alpha-blockers on cardiac repolarization. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients with a known history of cardiac arrhythmias, QT prolongation (e.g., congenital or acquired QT prolongation), history of torsade de pointes, or patients who are taking medications known to prolong the QT interval.


floppy iris syndrome


Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients treated with alpha-1 blockers. It is not known if alfuzosin is associated with this condition; however, clinicians should be prepared for possible modifications to the surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. The syndrome is characterized by a triad of features that distinguish it: 1) a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, 2) progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and 3) potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery.


thrombocytopenia


Postmarketing reports of blood and lymphatic system disorders, including thrombocytopenia have been reported during alfuzosin use; causality has not been established.


Description

Alfuzosin is an oral short-acting, selective alpha-1 receptor antagonist. It is used for the symptomatic treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in adult males. Meta-analyses have shown alfuzosin, doxazosin, tamsulosin, and terazosin to be comparable in the treatment of BPH; however, clinical uroselectivity may differ. Similar to tamsulosin, alfuzosin appears to be more specific for alpha-1a receptors than other alpha-blockers. Alfuzosin has a low incidence of hypotension and sexual dysfunction at doses that are therapeutic for BPH. In one study, alfuzosin improved BPH symptoms progressively during 12 months of administration. Alfuzosin was approved by the FDA in 2003.

Mechanism Of Action

Alfuzosin is a selective antagonist at alpha-1 receptors. Blockade of these receptors by alfuzosin can cause smooth muscles in the bladder neck and prostate to relax, thereby reducing pressure on the urethra and improving urine flow rate. This results in a reduction in the symptoms of benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH) and improves urinary flow. Alpha-1 receptors are involved in contraction of smooth muscle and are abundant in the prostate, prostatic capsule, prostatic urethra, bladder base, and bladder neck. Three subtypes of alpha-1 receptors have been identified: Alpha-1a, alpha-1b, and alpha-1d. Alpha-1a receptors mediate human prostatic smooth muscle contraction whereas alpha-1b and alpha-1d receptors are involved in vascular smooth muscle contraction. Both alpha-1a and alpha-1b receptors exist in the prostate, however, approximately 70% of the alpha receptors in the human prostate are of the alpha-1a subtype. Similar to tamsulosin, alfuzosin appears to be more specific for alpha-1a receptors than other alpha-1 blockers.

Pharmacokinetics

Alfuzosin is administered orally as a sustained-release dosage form. Steady-state plasma concentrations are attained after a second dose and are 1.2- to 1.6-fold higher than those following single doses. In the systemic circulation, it is approximately 82% to 90% protein bound. Penetration into the CNS is low. Alfuzosin is extensively metabolized by the liver to inactive metabolites; the metabolic pathways involved are oxidation, O-demethylation, and N-dealkylation. CYP3A4 is the principal hepatic enzyme involved in metabolism. About 11% of the parent compound is excreted unchanged in the urine. The metabolites are primarily excreted in the feces. Radiolabeled studies show 69% of an administered dose is excreted in the feces and 24% in the urine. The terminal elimination half-life is about 10 hours. Multiple dosing does not affect the elimination half-life.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
CYP3A4 is the principal enzyme involved in alfuzosin metabolism. Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 are contraindicated for use with alfuzosin, as alfuzosin blood concentrations are greatly increased (approximately 2 to 3-fold) in the presence of such inhibitors. Alfuzosin does not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 or CYP3A4; it does not induce CYP1A, CYP2A6, or CYP3A4.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Alfuzosin extended-release tablets are absorbed rapidly with an absolute bioavailability of 49% under fed conditions once released. Under fasting conditions, the extent of absorption is 50% lower. The extended-release tablets must be taken with food and not on an empty stomach. The time to peak concentration (Tmax) is 8 hours.

Hepatic Impairment

Alfuzosin pharmacokinetics are significantly altered in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Childs-Pugh class B and C). In patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment, the plasma apparent clearance was reduced to approximately one-third to one-fourth that seen in healthy subjects. This results in 3- to 4-fold higher alfuzosin plasma concentrations compared to healthy subjects. The pharmacokinetics of alfuzosin have not been studied in patients with mild hepatic impairment, so caution is recommended.

Renal Impairment

Caution should be exercised when alfuzosin is administered in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min). Alfuzosin pharmacokinetics are significantly altered in patients with renal impairment. Patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment may have an increase of approximately 50% in mean Cmax and AUC values compared to subjects with normal renal function. However, safety parameters are similar for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment versus those with normal renal function. There are very limited safety data for patients with severe renal impairment.

Geriatric

In elderly patients (65 years of age or older), peak plasma concentrations of alfuzosin were not correlated with age; however, trough alfuzosin concentrations were positively correlated with age. Trough alfuzosin concentrations in patients 75 years of age and older were approximately 35% higher than those less than 65 years of age.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations

Extended-release tablets:
Swallow whole. Patients should not crush, cut or chew the extended-release tablets.
Administer orally immediately after the same meal each day. Take with food. Do not take on an empty stomach.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

10 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

10 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Not indicated.

Dosage Forms

Alfuzosin 10mg Oral tablet, extended release

Uroxatral 10mg Extended-Release Tablet

Uroxatral 10mg Extended-Release Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A): No dosage adjustment needed; use with caution.
Moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Childs-Pugh class B or C): Do not use.

Renal Impairment

CrCl 30 mL/minute and greater: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl less than 30 mL/minute: Limited safety data are available; therefore, administer alfuzosin with caution due to the potential for increased alfuzosin exposure.

© 2026 Elsevier