=== Acetaminophen/HYDROcodone — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 852)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acetaminophen; hydrocodone is an oral combination of a para-aminophenol analgesic and opioid agonist indicated for the treatment of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Hydrocodone 60 mg/day PO and acetaminophen 2,600 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal, hyperamylasemia, opioid-induced esophageal dysfunction, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, malaise, interstitial nephritis, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis, urinary retention, anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, dysphoria, impaired cognition, lethargy, psychomotor impairment, agranulocytosis, hemolysis, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia

In an Overdose: In postmarketing studies, addiction, abuse, misuse, and fatal and non-fatal opioid overdose were observed in subjects with long-term opioid use. In a retrospective, observational cohort study in individuals with new long-term use of Schedule II opioid analgesics, the 5-year cumulative incidence estimates for opioid-involved overdose or opioid overdose-related death ranged from...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. serious adverse effects Opioids are associated with serious adverse effects, which may be life-threatening, including addiction, abuse, and misuse, respiratory depression, and neonatal...

ACETAMINOPHEN/HYDROCODONE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Anexsia, Bancap HC , Ceta-Plus, Co-Gesic, Comfortpak , Dolagesic, Dolorex Forte, DuoCet , Hycet, Hydrocet , Hydrogesic, Liquicet, Lorcet, Lorcet HD, Lorcet Plus, Lortab, Margesic H, Maxidone, Norco, Polygesic, Stagesic, Vanacet, Verdrocet, Vicodin, Vicodin ES, Vicodin HP, Xodol, Zamicet , Zolvit , Zydone

Indication Specific Dosing

General Dosing Information
Reserve opioid analgesics for use in individuals for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain.
Individualize dosing; consider severity of pain, clinical response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses for individuals in whom lower doses are insufficient and in whom expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh substantial risks.
Monitor individuals closely for respiratory depression, which may occur at any time during therapy. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dosage and when adjusting the dose. Continually reevaluate individuals to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as to monitor for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the opioid dosage. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions.
Many acute pain conditions (e.g., pain occurring with surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available.
There is substantial interpatient variability in the relative potency of different opioid drugs and products. When adjusting hydrocodone dosages or converting from another opioid agonist, it is better to underestimate daily dose requirements and give rescue doses than to risk an adverse reaction. If an adverse event occurs, the next dose may be reduced. Refer to the Opioid Agonists Drug Class Overview for approximate equianalgesic doses.
Avoid abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction in an individual who is physically dependent on opioid analgesics. When discontinuing acetaminophen; hydrocodone therapy in individuals who are opioid-dependent, taper the dose gradually by 10% to 25% every 2 to 4 weeks. Individuals who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. Ensure a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support if needed, is in place prior to an opioid analgesic taper.
Do not coadminister acetaminophen; hydrocodone with other hydrocodone or acetaminophen-containing products.


For the treatment of severe pain where treatment with an opioid is appropriate and for which alternative treatments are inadequate

Oral dosage (tablets containing 2.5 or 5 mg of hydrocodone and 300 or 325 mg of acetaminophen)
Adults


2.5 to 10 mg hydrocodone; 300 to 650 mg acetaminophen every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 40 mg/day hydrocodone; 2,600 mg/day acetaminophen.


Oral dosage (tablets containing 7.5 or 10 mg of hydrocodone and 300 or 325 mg of acetaminophen)
Adults


7.5 to 10 mg hydrocodone; 300 to 325 mg acetaminophen every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 60 mg/day hydrocodone; 1,950 mg/day acetaminophen.


Oral dosage (solution containing hydrocodone 7.5 mg and acetaminophen 325 mg per 15 mL)
Adults weighing 46 kg or more


7.5 mg hydrocodone; 325 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 45 mg/day hydrocodone; 1,950 mg/day acetaminophen.


Adolescents 14 to 17 years weighing 46 kg or more


7.5 mg hydrocodone; 325 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 45 mg/day hydrocodone; 1,950 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 32 to 45 kg


5 mg hydrocodone; 217 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 30 mg/day hydrocodone; 1,300 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children 2 to 12 years weighing 23 to 31 kg


3.75 mg hydrocodone; 162.5 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 22.5 mg/day hydrocodone; 975 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children 2 to 12 years weighing 16 to 22 kg


2.5 mg hydrocodone; 108 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 15 mg/day hydrocodone; 650 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children 2 to 12 years weighing 12 to 15 kg


1.875 mg hydrocodone; 81.25 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 11.25 mg/day hydrocodone; 487.5 mg/day acetaminophen.


Oral dosage (solution containing hydrocodone 10 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg per 15 mL)
Adults weighing 46 kg or more


7.5 mg hydrocodone; 225 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 45 mg/day hydrocodone; 1,350 mg/day acetaminophen.


Adolescents 14 to 17 years weighing 46 kg or more


7.5 mg hydrocodone; 225 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 45 mg/day hydrocodone; 1,350 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 32 to 45 kg


5 mg hydrocodone; 150 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 30 mg/day hydrocodone; 900 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children 2 to 12 years weighing 23 to 31 kg


3.7 mg hydrocodone; 112 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 22.4 mg/day hydrocodone; 672 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children 2 to 12 years weighing 16 to 22 kg


2.5 mg hydrocodone; 75 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 15 mg/day hydrocodone; 450 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children 2 to 12 years weighing 12 to 15 kg


1.87 mg hydrocodone; 56 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 11.2 mg/day hydrocodone; 336 mg/day acetaminophen.


Oral dosage (solution containing hydrocodone 10 mg and acetaminophen 325 mg per 15 mL)
Adults


10 mg hydrocodone; 325 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 60 mg/day hydrocodone; 1,950 mg/day acetaminophen.


Adolescents 14 to 17 years weighing 46 kg or more


7.5 mg hydrocodone; 244 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 45 mg/day hydrocodone; 1,462.5 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 32 to 45 kg


5 mg hydrocodone; 163 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 30 mg/day hydrocodone; 975 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children 2 to 12 years weighing 23 to 31 kg


3.7 mg hydrocodone; 121 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 22.4 mg/day hydrocodone; 728 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children 2 to 12 years weighing 16 to 22 kg


2.5 mg hydrocodone; 81.25 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 15 mg/day hydrocodone; 487.5 mg/day acetaminophen.


Children 2 years and older weighing 12 to 15 kg


1.87 mg hydrocodone; 61 mg acetaminophen PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 11.2 mg/day hydrocodone; 364 mg/day acetaminophen.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

serious adverse effects


Opioids are associated with serious adverse effects, which may be life-threatening, including addiction, abuse, and misuse, respiratory depression, and neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome (NOWS).


brain tumor, coma, head trauma, increased intracranial pressure, loss of consciousness


Avoid opioid use in individuals with loss of consciousness or coma; opioids may obscure the clinical course in an individual with a head trauma injury. Monitor individuals who may be susceptible to the intracranial effect of carbon dioxide retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumor) for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating opioid therapy. Opioids may reduce respiratory drive and the resultant carbon dioxide retention can further increase intracranial pressure.


seizures


Opioids may increase seizure frequency in individuals with seizure disorders and may increase seizure risk in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Regularly evaluate individuals with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during opioid therapy.


hypovolemia, shock


Avoid the use of opioids in individuals with circulatory shock. Opioids may cause vasodilation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Monitor individuals whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by hypovolemia or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant medications (e.g., phenothiazines, general anesthetics) for hypotension after opioid treatment initiation or dosage titration due to increased risk for severe hypotension. Additionally, severe hypovolemia (i.e., due to dehydration or blood loss) may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen.


asthma exacerbation, cachexia, central sleep apnea, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coadministration with certain medications, cor pulmonale, hypercapnia, hypoxia, respiratory depression, respiratory insufficiency, severe asthma


Acetaminophen; hydrocodone is contraindicated in individuals with significant respiratory depression and those with asthma exacerbation or severe asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment. Avoid opioid coadministration with certain medications, specifically other CNS depressants when possible, as this significantly increases the risk for profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these medications for use in individuals for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate; if concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective dosages and minimum treatment durations needed. Consider prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent if concomitant use is warranted. Monitor individuals closely for signs or symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Careful monitoring is required, particularly when CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers are used concomitantly with hydrocodone. Concurrent use of a CYP3A4 inhibitor or discontinuation of a concurrently used CYP3A4 inducer may result in an increase in plasma hydrocodone concentrations, which may increase the risk for respiratory depression. Concurrent use of a CYP3A4 inducer or discontinuation of CYP3A4 inhibitor may result in a decrease in plasma hydrocodone concentrations, which may be associated with reduced efficacy and/or opioid withdrawal. Individuals with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cor pulmonale, respiratory insufficiency, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or preexisting respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive even at recommended doses. Individuals with advanced age, cachexia, or debilitation are also at an increased risk for opioid-induced respiratory depression. Monitor such individuals closely, particularly when initiating and titrating the opioid; consider the use of non-opioid analgesics in these individuals. Carbon dioxide retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression may also worsen opioid sedating effects. Consider decreasing the opioid dosage in individuals with central sleep apnea (CSA). Opioids increase the risk of CSA and sleep-related hypoxemia in a dose-dependent fashion.


acute abdomen, acute pancreatitis, biliary tract disease, GI obstruction


Acetaminophen; hydrocodone is contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected GI obstruction, including paralytic ileus. Opioids may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi or increases in serum amylase. Monitor individuals with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Acetaminophen; hydrocodone may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in individuals with an acute abdomen.


alcohol use disorder, ethanol ingestion, hepatic disease, hepatotoxicity, malnutrition


Use a lower initial dose of acetaminophen; hydrocodone in individuals with hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. Regularly evaluate for adverse events, such as respiratory depression and sedation. Individuals with hepatic impairment may have higher plasma hydrocodone concentrations than those with normal hepatic function. Acetaminophen has been associated with hepatotoxicity. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses more than 4 g/day, and often involve more than 1 acetaminophen-containing product. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying hepatic disease and with chronic ethanol ingestion while taking acetaminophen, which may be defined as 3 or more alcohol beverages per day. Use acetaminophen with caution in individuals with alcohol use disorder, chronic malnutrition, severe hypovolemia (i.e., due to dehydration or blood loss), or severe renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less). Take care when prescribing, preparing, and administering acetaminophen to avoid risk of medication errors which could result in accidental overdose and death. Ensure that the total daily dose of acetaminophen from all sources does not exceed maximum daily limits.


renal failure, renal impairment


Use a lower initial dose of acetaminophen; hydrocodone in individuals with renal impairment or renal failure. Regularly evaluate for adverse events, such as respiratory depression and sedation. Individuals with renal impairment may have higher plasma hydrocodone concentrations than those with normal renal function.


major psychiatric disorder, opioid overdose, risk of medication errors, substance abuse disorder


Opioids expose users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in individuals appropriately prescribed an opioid. Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the medication is misused or abused. The risk of opioid-related overdose or overdose-related death is increased with higher doses, and this risk persists over the course of therapy. The potential for these risks should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given individual. Assess an individual's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse before prescribing an opioid, and monitor for the development of these behaviors or conditions. Risks are increased in individuals with a personal or family history of substance abuse disorder (including alcohol or drug abuse or addiction) or major psychiatric disorder (e.g., major depression). Individuals at increased risk may be prescribed opioids, but use in such individuals necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of the opioid along with frequent reevaluation for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Opioids are sought for nonmedical use and are subject to diversion from legitimate prescribed use. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing opioids. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the medication in the smallest appropriate quantity and educating about proper medication storage and disposal. Keep opioids out of the reach of children, others for whom the medication was not prescribed, and pets as accidental exposure or improper use may cause respiratory failure and a fatal overdose. Accidental exposure of even a single dose of an opioid, especially by younger individuals, can result in a fatal overdose. Risk of medication errors may result from confusion between milligram (mg) and milliliter (mL) when prescribing, dispensing, and administering acetaminophen; hydrocodone oral solution. Ensure that the dose is communicated clearly and dispensed accurately. Instruct individuals on how to measure the dose. Discuss the importance of an opioid overdose reversal agent and the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program), especially with individuals who are at increased risk of opioid overdose, such as those who are also using other CNS depressants, who have a history of opioid use disorder (OUD), who have experienced a previous opioid overdose, or who have household members or other close contacts at risk for accidental exposure or opioid overdose. Educate individuals and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression, and how to use an opioid overdose reversal agent for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if an opioid overdose reversal agent is administered.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration during opioid therapy unless they are tolerant to the effects of opioids and know how they will react to the medication. Opioids can impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities.


geriatric


Geriatric adults may have increased sensitivity to opioids. Use cautious dose selection for opioids in geriatric adults, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function and concomitant disease or other medication therapy. Increase the opioid dosage slowly in geriatric adults and frequently reevaluate for signs of CNS and respiratory depression. According to the Beers Criteria, opioid agonists are considered potentially inappropriate medications in geriatric adults with a history of falls or fractures and should be avoided in these populations, except in the setting of severe acute pain, since opioids can produce ataxia, impaired psychomotor function, syncope, and additional falls. If an opioid must be used, consider reducing the use of other CNS-active medications that increase the risk of falls and fractures and implement strategies to reduce fall risk. In individuals receiving palliative care, the balance of benefits and harms of medication management may differ from those of the general population of older adults.


labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy


Available data on acetaminophen; hydrocodone use during pregnancy are insufficient to define the risk of major birth defects or miscarriage. Opioids cross the placenta. In animal reproduction studies with hydrocodone in rats and rabbits, no embryotoxicity or teratogenicity was observed at exposures approximately 0.1 and 0.3 times, respectively, the human dose of 120 mg/day based on AUC comparisons. However, reduced pup survival rates, reduced fetal/pup body weights, and delayed ossification were observed at the same exposure levels. Acetaminophen, when used as a single agent, has long been established as the analgesic and antipyretic of choice for short-term use during pregnancy. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM), and the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada (SOGC) continue to support its use (as a single agent) when medically necessary and taken at recommended doses for the shortest duration required. Acetaminophen; hydrocodone is not recommended for use during and immediately before labor when other analgesic techniques are more appropriate. Opioids can prolong labor and obstetric delivery by temporarily reducing the strength, duration, and frequency of uterine contractions. This effect is not consistent and may be offset by an increased rate of cervical dilatation, which may shorten labor. In addition, neonates exposed to opioids in utero may present with respiratory depression at birth. Because of this, an opioid antagonist (e.g., naloxone) must be available for reversal of opioid-induced respiratory depression in the neonate at delivery. Guidelines recommend early universal screening of pregnant individuals for opioid use and opioid use disorder at the first prenatal visit. Obtain a thorough history of substance use and review the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program to determine if individuals have received prior prescriptions for opioids or other high-risk drugs such as benzodiazepines. Discuss the risks and benefits of opioid use during pregnancy, including the risk of becoming physiologically dependent on opioids, the possibility for neonatal withdrawal, and how long-term opioid use may affect care during a future pregnancy. In individuals undergoing uncomplicated normal spontaneous vaginal birth, consider opioid therapy only if expected benefits for both pain and function are anticipated to outweigh risks. If opioids are used, use in combination with nonpharmacologic therapy and non-opioid pharmacologic therapy, as appropriate. Use immediate-release opioids instead of extended-release or long-acting opioids; order the lowest effective dosage and prescribe no greater quantity of opioids than needed for the expected duration of such pain severe enough to require opioids. For individuals using opioids for chronic pain, consider strategies to avoid or minimize the use of opioids, including alternative pain therapies (i.e., nonpharmacologic) and non-opioid pharmacologic treatments. Opioid agonist pharmacotherapy (e.g., methadone or buprenorphine) is preferable to medically supervised withdrawal in pregnant individuals with opioid use disorder.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with opioids. Long-term use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, leading to hormonal changes that may manifest as a libido decrease, impotence, erectile dysfunction, amenorrhea, or infertility. The causal role of opioids in the clinical manifestations of hypogonadism is unknown. It is not known whether the effects on fertility are reversible.  


neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero may present with respiratory depression and psycho-physiologic effects at birth. Monitor exposed newborns for signs of excess sedation and respiratory depression. If necessary, administer an opioid antagonist (e.g., naloxone) to reverse the effects of opioid-induced respiratory depression. Long-term use of opioids during pregnancy can result in physical dependence in the exposed infant. Monitor newborns for symptoms of withdrawal and manage accordingly. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome may present as irritability, hyperactivity, abnormal sleep pattern, high-pitched cry, tremor, vomiting, diarrhea, and failure to gain weight. It can be life-threatening if not recognized and treated. Onset, duration, and severity of opioid withdrawal may vary based on the specific opioid used, duration of use, timing and amount of last maternal use, and rate of elimination by the infant.  


breast-feeding


Use acetaminophen; hydrocodone with caution during breast-feeding. Hydrocodone is present in human milk. Monitor children exposed to opioids through breast milk for excess sedation and respiratory depression. Withdrawal symptoms may occur in the breast-fed child when maternal administration of the opioid is stopped or when breast-feeding is discontinued, particularly with chronic use. A pharmacokinetic study in 30 patients receiving a combination of acetaminophen and hydrocodone for postpartum pain found that breastfed newborns (postnatal age 3 to 11 days) received a median of 1.6% (range 0.2% to 9%) of the lactating individual's weight-adjusted hydrocodone dosage. The total opioid dosage via human milk, including the active metabolite hydromorphone, was found to be 0.7% of the therapeutic dosage used for older infants. For the treatment of postpartum pain, experts recommend limiting hydrocodone doses to a maximum of 30 mg/day. If higher doses are required, closely monitor the breastfed child for adverse effects. Avoid doses above 40 mg/day. Acetaminophen, as a single agent, is compatible with breast-feeding and is considered a first-line choice for analgesia in the lactating individual, including for those patients who are immediately postpartum and planning to breastfeed. Amounts present in milk are much less than the doses usually given to infants, and adverse effects in breastfed infants appear to be rare.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Use acetaminophen; hydrocodone with caution during breast-feeding. Hydrocodone is present in human milk. Monitor children exposed to opioids through breast milk for excess sedation and respiratory depression. Withdrawal symptoms may occur in the breast-fed child when maternal administration of the opioid is stopped or when breast-feeding is discontinued, particularly with chronic use. A pharmacokinetic study in 30 patients receiving a combination of acetaminophen and hydrocodone for postpartum pain found that breastfed newborns (postnatal age 3 to 11 days) received a median of 1.6% (range 0.2% to 9%) of the lactating individual's weight-adjusted hydrocodone dosage. The total opioid dosage via human milk, including the active metabolite hydromorphone, was found to be 0.7% of the therapeutic dosage used for older infants. For the treatment of postpartum pain, experts recommend limiting hydrocodone doses to a maximum of 30 mg/day. If higher doses are required, closely monitor the breastfed child for adverse effects. Avoid doses above 40 mg/day. Acetaminophen, as a single agent, is compatible with breast-feeding and is considered a first-line choice for analgesia in the lactating individual, including for those patients who are immediately postpartum and planning to breastfeed. Amounts present in milk are much less than the doses usually given to infants, and adverse effects in breastfed infants appear to be rare.


Interactions

Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Abiraterone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with abiraterone may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of abiraterone could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If abiraterone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Abiraterone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyrilamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with pyrilamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of adagrasib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, and coadministration with dual CYP3A and CYP2D6 inhibitors like adagrasib can significantly increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. If adagrasib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Alosetron: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected. (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as magnesium hydroxide, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected. (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as magnesium hydroxide, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Alvimopan: (Moderate) Patients should not take alvimopan if they have received therapeutic doses of opiate agonists for more than seven consecutive days immediately before initiation of alvimopan therapy. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of mu-opioid receptor antagonists and may experience adverse effects localized to the gastrointestinal tract such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Amide local anesthetics: (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amiodarone is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like amiodarone can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If amiodarone is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tricyclic antidepressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tricyclic antidepressants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with celecoxib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Amobarbital: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Amoxapine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with amoxapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with amoxapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like clarithromycin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If clarithromycin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamines: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Antacids: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with apalutamide can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Apomorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with entacapone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as opiate agonists. Although no specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of oral, multi-day regimens of aprepitant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like aprepitant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If aprepitant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Minor) Use caution if acetaminophen and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in acetaminophen-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Acetaminophen is a minor (10 to 15%) substrate of CYP3A4. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of acetaminophen. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with armodafinil is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If armodafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with artemether; lumefantrine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of artemether; lumefantrine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If artemether; lumefantrine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Artemether; lumefantrine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If asciminib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of atazanavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like atazanavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If atazanavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of atazanavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like atazanavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If atazanavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of cobicistat is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like cobicistat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If cobicistat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Atropine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of hydrocodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of hydrocodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with other opiate agonists can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration. In addition, diphenoxylate/difenoxin use may cause constipation; cases of severe GI reactions including toxic megacolon and adynamic ileus have been reported. Reduced GI motility when combined with opiate agonists may increase the risk of serious GI related adverse events.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If avacopan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Azelastine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with azelastine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking azelastine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with azelastine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with azelastine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking azelastine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with azelastine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Baclofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with baclofen may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with baclofen to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking baclofen.
Barbiturates: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and belladonna use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like belumosudil can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If belumosudil is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with belzutifan is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If belzutifan is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and belzutifan is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Benzhydrodocone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Use caution to avoid duplicate therapy. Concomitant use of opioid agonists with benzhydrocodone may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of benzhydrocodone with opioid agonists to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If benzhydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking morphine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response. If morphine is prescribed in a patient taking benzhydrocodone, use a lower initial dose of morphine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking other opioid agonists. Careful monitoring, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment, is recommended during coadministration of benzhydrocodone and morphine because of the potential risk of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue benzhydrocodone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of hydrocodone in patients receiving methylene blue or within 14 days of stopping treatment with methylene blue due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity, including respiratory depression. If cannot avoid use, choose the lowest possible methylene blue dose and observe the patient closely for up to 4 hours after administration. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and benztropine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of berotralstat is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like berotralstat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If berotralstat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Bexarotene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with bexarotene can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If bexarotene is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Bicalutamide: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of bicalutamide is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like bicalutamide can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If bicalutamide is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lenacapavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like lenacapavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If lenacapavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Bisacodyl: (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as bisacodyl, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with bosentan can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If bosentan is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Brexanolone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of brexanolone with CNS depressants like the opiate agonists may increase the likelihood or severity of adverse reactions related to sedation and additive CNS depression. Monitor for excessive sedation, dizziness, and a potential for loss of consciousness during brexanolone use.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with brexpiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking brexpiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with brexpiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with brigatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If brigatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and brigatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Brimonidine; Brinzolamide: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with brompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with brompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with brompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with brompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with brompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with brompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with brompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with brompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with brompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with brompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a loop diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the loop diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of hydrocodone and a mixed opioid agonist/antagonist, such as buprenorphine, due to risk for reduced analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or precipitation of withdrawal symptoms.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of hydrocodone and a mixed opioid agonist/antagonist, such as buprenorphine, due to risk for reduced analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or precipitation of withdrawal symptoms.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with bupropion may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of bupropion could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If bupropion is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Bupropion is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of naltrexone with opioid agonists is contraindicated. Naltrexone will reduce opioid efficacy and may precipitate opioid withdrawal in patients with opioid dependence. To minimize the risk for opioid withdrawal, avoid initiating naltrexone until patients have completed an adequate opioid-free interval. The opioid-free interval should last a minimum of 7 to 10 days, but a longer duration may be necessary and should be individualized based on characteristics such as drug half-life and organ function. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for opioid overdose in patients that attempt to overcome naltrexone opioid blockade with escalating doses of opioids. Naltrexone is an opioid antagonist. (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with bupropion may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of bupropion could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If bupropion is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Bupropion is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other central nervous system depressants, such as buspirone, can potentiate the effects of hydrocodone and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. If hydrocodone is used with buspirone, the dose of one or both drugs should be reduced.
Busulfan: (Moderate) Use busulfan and acetaminophen together with caution; concomitant use may result in increased busulfan levels and increased busulfan toxicity. Separating the administration of these drugs may mitigate this interaction; avoid giving acetaminophen within 72 hours prior to or concurrently with busulfan. Busulfan is metabolized in the liver through conjugation with glutathione; acetaminophen decreases glutathione levels in the blood and tissues and may reduce the clearance of busulfan.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butorphanol: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of butorphanol and opiate agonists, such as hydrocodone. Butorphanol is a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist that may block the effects of opiate agonists and reduce analgesic effects of hydrocodone. Butorphanol may cause withdrawal symptoms in patients receiving chronic opiate agonists. Concurrent use of butorphanol with other opiate agonists can cause additive CNS, respiratory, and hypotensive effects. The additive or antagonistic effects are dependent upon the dose of the opiate agonist used; antagonistic effects are more common at low to moderate doses of the opiate agonist.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with sodium oxybate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with sodium oxybate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with cannabidiol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking cannabidiol. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with cannabidiol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Capivasertib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of capivasertib is necessary. Avoid concomitant use if hydrocodone is being used for cough. Concomitant use of hydrocodone with capivasertib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; capivasertib is a moderate CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of opiate agonists.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with carbamazepine can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If carbamazepine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Carbamazepine may potentially accelerate the hepatic metabolism of acetaminophen. In addition, due to enzyme induction, carbamazepine may increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Clinicians should be alert to decreased effect of acetaminophen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary, and closer monitoring of clinical and/or adverse effects is warranted.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carbinoxamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with carbinoxamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like hydrocodone with cariprazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with cariprazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking cariprazine.
Carisoprodol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
Castor Oil: (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as castor oil, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with celecoxib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with tramadol may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of hydrocodone with tramadol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Additionally, monitor patients for seizures and/or the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with celecoxib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of celecoxib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If celecoxib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with cenobamate may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of hydrocodone with cenobamate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Avoid prescribing hydrocodone cough medication in patients taking cenobamate. Additionally, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with cenobamate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If cenobamate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone concentrations.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ceritinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ceritinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ceritinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cetirizine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Charcoal: (Minor) Activated charcoal binds many drugs within the gut. Administering charcoal dietary supplements at the same time as a routine acetaminophen dosage would be expected to interfere with the analgesic and antipyretic efficacy of acetaminophen. Charcoal is mostly used in the setting of acetaminophen overdose; however, patients should never try to treat an acetaminophen overdose with charcoal dietary supplements. Advise patients to get immediate medical attention for an acetaminophen overdose.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexchlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexchlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of chloramphenicol is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like chloramphenicol can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If chloramphenicol is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorcyclizine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorcyclizine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tricyclic antidepressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tricyclic antidepressants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of chloroprocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue chloroprocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Minor) Due to the CNS depression potential of all local anesthetics, they should be used with caution with other agents that can cause respiratory depression, such as opiate agonists.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpromazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking chlorpromazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorpromazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Chlorzoxazone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorzoxazone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with chlorzoxazone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking chlorzoxazone.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Prolonged concurrent use of acetaminophen and salicylates is not recommended. Although salicylates are rarely associated with nephrotoxicity, high-dose, chronic administration of salicylates combined other analgesics, including acetaminophen, significantly increases the risk of analgesic nephropathy, renal papillary necrosis, and end-stage renal disease. Additive hepatic toxicity may occur, especially in combined overdose situations. Do not exceed the recommended individual maximum doses when these agents are given concurrently for short-term therapy.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of cimetidine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like cimetidine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If cimetidine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cinacalcet: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with cinacalcet may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of cinacalcet could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If cinacalcet is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6; cinacalcet is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ciprofloxacin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ciprofloxacin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ciprofloxacin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome can occur during concomitant use of opiate agonists like hydrocodone with serotonergic drugs, such as citalopram. Symptoms may occur hours to days after concomitant use, particularly after dose increases. Serotonin syndrome may occur within recommended dose ranges. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like clarithromycin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If clarithromycin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with clemastine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with clemastine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
cloBAZam: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, the metabolism of hydrocodone to its active metabolite, hydromorphone, is dependent on CYP2D6. Theoretically, co-administration of hydrocodone and a CYP2D6 inhibitor, such as clobazam, may result in a reduction in the analgesic effect of hydrocodone. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tricyclic antidepressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tricyclic antidepressants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
clonazePAM: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
cloNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with clonidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with clonidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Coadministration of opioid agonists, such as hydrocodone, delay and reduce the absorption of clopidogrel resulting in reduced exposure to active metabolites and diminished inhibition of platelet aggregation. Consider the use of a parenteral antiplatelet agent in acute coronary syndrome patients requiring an opioid agonist. Coadministration of intravenous morphine decreased the Cmax and AUC of clopidogrel's active metabolites by 34%. Time required for maximal inhibition of platelet aggregation (median 3 hours vs. 1.25 hours) was significantly delayed; times up to 5 hours were reported. Inhibition of platelet plug formation was delayed and residual platelet aggregation was significantly greater 1 to 4 hours after morphine administration.
Clorazepate: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants, such as clozapine, may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. In addition, combining clozapine with opiate agonists may lead to additive effects on intestinal motility or bladder function.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of cobicistat is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like cobicistat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If cobicistat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with promethazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking promethazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with promethazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce the opioid dose by one-quarter to one-half; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with promethazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking promethazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with promethazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce the opioid dose by one-quarter to one-half; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
COMT inhibitors: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of conivaptan is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like conivaptan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If conivaptan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of crizotinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like crizotinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If crizotinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Crofelemer: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between crofelemer and opiate agonists are theoretically possible. Crofelemer does not affect GI motility mechanisms, but does have antidiarrheal effects. Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility, such as opiate agonists, may be at greater risk for serious complications from crofelemer, such as constipation with chronic use. Use caution and monitor GI symptoms during coadministration.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with cyclobenzaprine may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death and increase the risk for serotonin syndrome and anticholinergic effects. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with cyclobenzaprine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking cyclobenzaprine. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of therapy. The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during coadministration. The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of cyclosporine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like cyclosporine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If cyclosporine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with cyproheptadine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with cyproheptadine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Dabrafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with dabrafenib can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If dabrafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Dacomitinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with dacomitinib may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dacomitinib could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If dacomitinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Dacomitinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dalfopristin; quinupristin is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like dalfopristin; quinupristin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If dalfopristin; quinupristin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Danazol: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of danazol is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like danazol can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If danazol is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Dantrolene: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dantrolene may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid agonists with dantrolene to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking dantrolene.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Coadministration of dapsone with acetaminophen may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Advise patients to discontinue treatment and seek immediate medical attention with any signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of daridorexant is necessary; avoid when hydrocodone is used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like daridorexant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If daridorexant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with darifenacin may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including a risk for hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Avoid use of hydrocodone when it is being used for cough; consider alternative agents for cough treatment. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of darunavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like darunavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If darunavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of cobicistat is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like cobicistat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If cobicistat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of darunavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like darunavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If darunavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of cobicistat is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like cobicistat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If cobicistat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of darunavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like darunavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If darunavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with deferasirox is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If deferasirox is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and deferasirox is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Desipramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tricyclic antidepressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tricyclic antidepressants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Desmopressin: (Major) Additive hyponatremic effects may be seen in patients treated with desmopressin and drugs associated with water intoxication, hyponatremia, or SIADH including opiate agonists. Use combination with caution, and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Desvenlafaxine: (Major) Careful monitoring, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment, is recommended during coadministration of hydrocodone and desvenlafaxine because of the potential risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Discontinue hydrocodone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with desvenlafaxine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of desvenlafaxine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If desvenlafaxine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Desvenlafaxine is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with deutetrabenazine may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with deutetrabenazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If acetaminophen; hydrocodone or hydrocodone; ibuprofen are initiated in a patient taking deutetrabenazine, reduced initial doses are recommended. If a decision is made to start treatment with hydrocodone extended-release tabIets or capsules, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If deutetrabenazine is prescribed for a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of deutetrabenazine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking deutetrabenazine.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with dexamethasone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If dexamethasone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and dexamethasone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexchlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexchlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexchlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexchlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexmedetomidine may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexmedetomidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with bupropion may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of bupropion could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If bupropion is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Bupropion is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with quinidine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of quinidine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If quinidine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Quinidine is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
diazePAM: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. If parental diazepam is used with an opiate agonist, reduce the opiate agonist dosage by at least 1/3. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and dicyclomine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Difelikefalin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as difelikefalin. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Acetaminophen plasma concentrations can increase by approximately 50% following administration of diflunisal. Acetaminophen has no effect on diflunisal concentrations. Acetaminophen in high doses has been associated with severe hepatotoxic reactions; therefore, caution should be exercised when using these agents concomitantly.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of diltiazem is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like diltiazem can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If diltiazem is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dimenhydrinate may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dimenhydrinate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of hydrocodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with other opiate agonists can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration. In addition, diphenoxylate/difenoxin use may cause constipation; cases of severe GI reactions including toxic megacolon and adynamic ileus have been reported. Reduced GI motility when combined with opiate agonists may increase the risk of serious GI related adverse events.
Doxepin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tricyclic antidepressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tricyclic antidepressants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Doxylamine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dronabinol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dronabinol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like dronedarone can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If dronedarone is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with droperidol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking droperidol. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with droperidol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Careful monitoring, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment, is recommended during coadministration of hydrocodone and duloxetine because of the potential risk of serotonin syndrome and prolonged opioid adverse reactions. Discontinue hydrocodone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Concomitant use of hydrocodone with duloxetine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of duloxetine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If duloxetine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of duvelisib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like duvelisib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If duvelisib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with efavirenz can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If efavirenz is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with efavirenz can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If efavirenz is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with efavirenz can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If efavirenz is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Elafibranor: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If elafibranor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with elagolix can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If elagolix is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with elagolix can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If elagolix is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of grazoprevir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like grazoprevir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If grazoprevir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ivacaftor is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ivacaftor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ivacaftor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with eliglustat may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of eliglustat could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If eliglustat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Eliglustat is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Elinzanetant: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If elinzanetant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is a UDP-glucuronyltransferase inhibitor. Acetaminophen is a substrate of UDP-glucuronyltransferases. The significance or effect of this interaction is not known; however, elevated concentrations of acetaminophen are possible. Monitor patients for adverse reactions if these drugs are coadministered.
Eluxadoline: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as hydrocodone. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of cobicistat is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like cobicistat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If cobicistat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of cobicistat is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like cobicistat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If cobicistat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal or increased toxicity if coadministration with enasidenib is necessary. Consider adjusting the dose of hydrocodone as needed based on response. Avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Concomitant use may alter hydrocodone exposure although the net effect is unknown. Hydrocodone is a substrate of CYP3A and CYP2D6 and enasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer and CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with encorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If encorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentration; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ensitrelvir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ensitrelvir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with enzalutamide can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If enzalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of erythromycin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like erythromycin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If erythromycin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Careful monitoring, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment, is recommended during coadministration of hydrocodone and escitalopram because of the potential risk of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue hydrocodone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with escitalopram may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of escitalopram could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If escitalopram is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Escitalopram is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Esketamine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Eslicarbazepine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with eslicarbazepine can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If eslicarbazepine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Estazolam: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Eszopiclone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with eszopiclone may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., driving, talking, eating, or performing other activities while not fully awake). Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking eszopiclone. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with eszopiclone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Instruct patients to contact their provider immediately if sleep-related symptoms or behaviors occur. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a loop diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the loop diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking opioids. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression and may increase the risk for opioid overdose. Alcohol may also increase opioid drug exposure and the risk for fatal overdose by disrupting extended- or delayed-release opioid formulations. Consider the patient's use of alcohol when prescribing opioid medications. If the patient is unlikely to be compliant with avoiding alcohol, consider prescribing naloxone especially if additional risk factors for opioid overdose are present. (Major) The risk of developing hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen appears to be increased in patients who regularly consume alcohol. Patients who drink more than 3 alcohol-containing drinks a day and take acetaminophen are at increased risk of developing hepatotoxicity. Acute or chronic alcohol use increases acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by inducing CYP2E1 leading to increased formation of the hepatotoxic metabolite of acetaminophen. Also, chronic alcohol use can deplete liver glutathione stores. Administration of acetaminophen should be limited or avoided altogether in patients with alcoholism or patients who consume alcohol regularly.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Etomidate: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with a general anesthetic may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients receiving a general anesthetic. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a general anesthetic to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with etravirine can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If etravirine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of everolimus is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like everolimus can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If everolimus is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Exenatide: (Minor) Although an interaction is possible, these drugs may be used together. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least 1 hour prior to an exenatide injection. When 1,000 mg acetaminophen elixir was given with 10 mcg exenatide (at 0 hours) and at 1, 2 and 4 hours after exenatide injection, acetaminophen AUCs were decreased by 21%, 23%, 24%, and 14%, respectively; Cmax was decreased by 37%, 56%, 54%, and 41%, respectively. Additionally, acetaminophen Tmax was delayed from 0.6 hours in the control period to 0.9, 4.2, 3.3, and 1.6 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before exenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying from exenatide use) and the clinical impact has not been assessed.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fedratinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like fedratinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If fedratinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with fenfluramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid agonists with fenfluramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking fenfluramine. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Fesoterodine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when fesoterodine, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If fexinidazole is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and flavoxate use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with flibanserin may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with flibanserin to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fluconazole is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like fluconazole can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If fluconazole is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Careful monitoring, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment, is recommended during coadministration of hydrocodone and fluoxetine because of the potential risk of serotonin syndrome and prolonged opioid adverse reactions. Discontinue hydrocodone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Concomitant use of hydrocodone with fluoxetine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fluoxetine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If fluoxetine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Fluoxetine is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with fluphenazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking fluphenazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with fluphenazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Flurazepam: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Flutamide: (Moderate) Hydrocodone is metabolized by CYP3A4. Flutamide, an inducer of CYP3A4, may cause increased clearance of hydrocodone, which could result in lack of efficacy or the development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. Monitor the patient for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone. A higher hydrocodone dose may be needed if used with flutamide.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fluvoxamine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like fluvoxamine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If fluvoxamine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fosamprenavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like fosamprenavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If fosamprenavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with fosphenytoin can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If fosphenytoin is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin (the active metabolite of fosphenytoin) is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like fostamatinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If fostamatinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Frovatriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a loop diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the loop diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
Gabapentin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with gabapentin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking gabapentin. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with gabapentin to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Also, coadministration of gabapentin with hydrocodone decreases hydrocodone exposure in a dose-dependent manner. Consider the potential for decreased hydrocodone exposure and effect when gabapentin is started or discontinued in a patient taking hydrocodone. Hydrocodone (10 mg; n = 50) Cmax and AUC values were 3% to 4% lower, respectively, after administration of gabapentin (n = 48) 125 mg and 21% to 22% lower, respectively, after administration of gabapentin 500 mg. Hydrocodone increases gabapentin AUC values by 14%. The magnitude of interaction at other doses and the mechanism of the interaction are unknown.
General anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with a general anesthetic may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients receiving a general anesthetic. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a general anesthetic to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and opioids is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of gepotidacin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like gepotidacin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If gepotidacin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Givinostat: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of givinostat is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like givinostat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If givinostat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Glycerol Phenylbutyrate: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with glycerol phenylbutyrate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If glycerol phenylbutyrate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and glycerol phenylbutyrate is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Grapefruit juice: (Moderate) Patients should not significantly alter their intake of grapefruit or grapefruit juice during therapy with hydrocodone. Grapefruit juice, a CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase plasma concentrations of hydrocodone, a CYP3A4 substrate. This may increase or prolong hydrocodone-related toxicities including respiratory depression. Advise patients accordingly; patient monitoring and dosage adjustments may be necessary if grapefruit is consumed regularly.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with guanfacine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with guanfacine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with haloperidol may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of haloperidol could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If haloperidol is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Haloperidol is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and homatropine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Hydantoins: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydromorphone with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as other opiate agonists like hydrocodone, can potentiate the effects of hydromorphone and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression, profound sedation, or coma. Prior to concurrent use of hydromorphone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. If hydromorphone is used concurrently with a CNS depressant, a reduced dosage of hydromorphone and/or the CNS depressant is recommended; start with one-third to one-half of the estimated hydromorphone starting dose when using hydromorphone extended-release tablets. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension, CNS depression, and respiratory depression. Carbon dioxide retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with hydroxyzine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking hydroxyzine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with hydroxyzine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of hydrocodone in patients receiving methylene blue or within 14 days of stopping treatment with methylene blue due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity, including respiratory depression. If cannot avoid use, choose the lowest possible methylene blue dose and observe the patient closely for up to 4 hours after administration. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of idelalisib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like idelalisib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If idelalisib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of iloperidone with other centrally-acting medications such as opiate agonists, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects including drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Imatinib: (Major) Imatinib, STI-571 may affect the metabolism of acetaminophen. In vitro, imatinib was found to inhibit acetaminophen O-glucuronidation at therapeutic levels. Therefore, systemic exposure to acetaminophen is expected to be increased with coadministration of imatinib. Chronic acetaminophen therapy should be avoided in patients receiving imatinib. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of imatinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like imatinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If imatinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Imipramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tricyclic antidepressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tricyclic antidepressants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with acetaminophen may result in increased serum concentrations of acetaminophen. Acetaminophen is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of isavuconazonium is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like isavuconazonium can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If isavuconazonium is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Isocarboxazid: (Major) The use of hydrocodone is not recommended in patients who have received a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) within the past 14 days or are currently taking an MAOI due to a risk for serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity, including respiratory depression. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small opioid doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome and CNS and respiratory depression.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with a general anesthetic may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients receiving a general anesthetic. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a general anesthetic to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Agents which induce the hepatic isoenzyme CYP2E1, such as isoniazid, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolites. The combination of isoniazid and acetaminophen has caused severe hepatotoxicity in at least one patient; studies in rats have demonstrated that pre-treatment with isoniazid potentiates acetaminophen hepatotoxicity. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of isoniazid is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like isoniazid can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If isoniazid is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If istradefylline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of itraconazole is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like itraconazole can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If itraconazole is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ivacaftor is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ivacaftor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ivacaftor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Ketamine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with a general anesthetic may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients receiving a general anesthetic. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a general anesthetic to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ketoconazole is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Lactulose: (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as lactulose, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for possible loss of lamotrigine efficacy and seizure activity during coadministration with acetaminophen. Acetaminophen may induce glucuronidation pathways involved in lamotrigine metabolism. During a study among 12 healthy volunteers, concomitant administration of acetaminophen 4 g/day with lamotrigine at steady-state increased the formation clearance of lamotrigine glucuronide conjugates by 45%, decreased lamotrigine AUC by 20%, and reduced lamotrigine trough concentrations by 25%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like clarithromycin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If clarithromycin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lapatinib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like lapatinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If lapatinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of larotrectinib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like larotrectinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If larotrectinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with lasmiditan may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and serotonin syndrome. Limit the use of hydrocodone with lasmiditan to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing hydrocodone cough medications in patients taking lasmiditan.
Lazertinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like lazertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If lazertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of oral lefamulin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. An interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like oral lefamulin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If oral lefamulin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with lemborexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of hydrocodone with lemborexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Avoid prescribing hydrocodone cough medicine in patients taking lemborexant.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lenacapavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like lenacapavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If lenacapavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of letermovir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like letermovir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If letermovir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Levocetirizine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ketoconazole is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and levomilnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Linezolid: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of hydrocodone in patients receiving linezolid or within 14 days of stopping treatment with linezolid due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity, including respiratory depression.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Lithium: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and lithium is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and hydrocodone. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of lonafarnib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like lonafarnib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If lonafarnib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a loop diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the loop diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritonavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ritonavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ritonavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
LORazepam: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Lorlatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like hydrocodone with loxapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with loxapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking loxapine.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with lumacaftor; ivacaftor can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If lumacaftor; ivacaftor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ivacaftor is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ivacaftor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ivacaftor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with lumacaftor; ivacaftor can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If lumacaftor; ivacaftor is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like hydrocodone with lumateperone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with lumateperone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking lumateperone.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like hydrocodone with lurasidone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with lurasidone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking lurasidone.
Magnesium Citrate: (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as magnesium citrate, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected. (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as magnesium hydroxide, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Magnesium Salts: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Sulfate; Sodium Sulfate: (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If maribavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Mavacamten: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. If mavorixafor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with melatonin may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking melatonin. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with melatonin to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mepivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue mepivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with meprobamate may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. Drugs that may cause additive CNS effects include anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Meropenem: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with meropenem is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If meropenem is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with meropenem is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If meropenem is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Metaxalone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metaxalone may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with metaxalone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking metaxalone. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use of metaxalone and opioid agonists increases the risk for serotonin syndrome. Avoid concomitant use if possible and monitor for serotonin syndrome if use is necessary.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of hydrocodone in patients receiving methylene blue or within 14 days of stopping treatment with methylene blue due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity, including respiratory depression. If cannot avoid use, choose the lowest possible methylene blue dose and observe the patient closely for up to 4 hours after administration. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Methocarbamol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methocarbamol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with methocarbamol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking methocarbamol.
Methohexital: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with methyldopa may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with methyldopa to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Methylene Blue: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of hydrocodone in patients receiving methylene blue or within 14 days of stopping treatment with methylene blue due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity, including respiratory depression. If cannot avoid use, choose the lowest possible methylene blue dose and observe the patient closely for up to 4 hours after administration.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) The effects of metoclopramide on gastrointestinal motility are antagonized by narcotic analgesics. Concomitant use of opioid agonists with metoclopramide may also cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking metoclopramide. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with metoclopramide to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
metyraPONE: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with opiate agonists can result in additive sedative effects.
Midazolam: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if chronic, concurrent use of mifepristone is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like mifepristone can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If mifepristone is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and milnacipran is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Mineral Oil: (Moderate) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as mineral oil, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants such as opiate agonists. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with mirabegron may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mirabegron could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If mirabegron is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Mirabegron is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with mirtazapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with mirtazapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking mirtazapine.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitapivat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Mitotane: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with mitotane can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with hydrocodone. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal and/or additive CNS depression; consider adjusting the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Mobocertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with modafinil can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If modafinil is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Molindone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like hydrocodone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Major) The use of hydrocodone is not recommended in patients who have received a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) within the past 14 days or are currently taking an MAOI due to a risk for serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity, including respiratory depression. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small opioid doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome and CNS and respiratory depression.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with morphine may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage. Also, consider a using a lower dose of morphine. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Nafcillin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with nafcillin can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If nafcillin is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nalbuphine and opiate agonists, such as hydrocodone. Nalbuphine is a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist that may block the effects of opiate agonists and reduce analgesic effects. Nalbuphine may cause withdrawal symptoms in patients receiving chronic opiate agonists. Concurrent use of nalbuphine with other opiate agonists can cause additive CNS, respiratory, and hypotensive effects. The additive or antagonistic effects are dependent upon the dose of the opiate agonist used; antagonistic effects are more common at low to moderate doses of the opiate agonist.
Naltrexone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of naltrexone with opioid agonists is contraindicated. Naltrexone will reduce opioid efficacy and may precipitate opioid withdrawal in patients with opioid dependence. To minimize the risk for opioid withdrawal, avoid initiating naltrexone until patients have completed an adequate opioid-free interval. The opioid-free interval should last a minimum of 7 to 10 days, but a longer duration may be necessary and should be individualized based on characteristics such as drug half-life and organ function. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for opioid overdose in patients that attempt to overcome naltrexone opioid blockade with escalating doses of opioids. Naltrexone is an opioid antagonist.
Naratriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Nefazodone: (Major) Careful monitoring, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment, is recommended during coadministration of hydrocodone and nefazodone because of the potential risk of serotonin syndrome and prolonged opioid adverse reactions. Discontinue hydrocodone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Concomitant use of hydrocodone with nefazodone may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of nefazodone could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If nefazodone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP3A4. Nefazodone is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of nelfinavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like nelfinavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If nelfinavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of netupitant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like netupitant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If netupitant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with nevirapine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If nevirapine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of nicardipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like nicardipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If nicardipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of nilotinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like nilotinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If nilotinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Niraparib; Abiraterone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with abiraterone may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of abiraterone could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If abiraterone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Abiraterone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Consider withholding hydrocodone, if clinically appropriate, during receipt of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir. If this is not feasible, consider using an alternative COVID-19 therapy or reducing the hydrocodone dose. Coadministration may increase hydrocodone exposure, resulting in prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression. Hydrocodone is metabolized by CYP3A4 and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritonavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ritonavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ritonavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of nirogacestat is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like nirogacestat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If nirogacestat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Nitroglycerin: (Minor) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as opiate agonists. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin is used concurrently with opiate agonists.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tricyclic antidepressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tricyclic antidepressants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Odevixibat: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with odevixibat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If odevixibat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and odevixibat is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
OLANZapine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with olanzapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with olanzapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking olanzapine.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with olanzapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with olanzapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking olanzapine. (Moderate) Careful monitoring, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment, is recommended during coadministration of hydrocodone and fluoxetine because of the potential risk of serotonin syndrome and prolonged opioid adverse reactions. Discontinue hydrocodone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Concomitant use of hydrocodone with fluoxetine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of fluoxetine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If fluoxetine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Fluoxetine is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Contraindicated) Salmidorphan is contraindicated in patients who are using opiate agonists or undergoing acute opioid withdrawal. Salmidorphan increases the risk of precipitating acute opioid withdrawal in patients dependent on opioids. Before initiating salmidorphan, there should be at least a 7-day opioid-free interval from the last use of short-acting opioids, and at least a 14-day opioid-free interval from the last use of long-acting opioids. In emergency situations, if a salmidorphan-treated patient requires opiates for anesthesia or analgesia, discontinue salmidorphan. The opiate agonist should be administered by properly trained individual(s), and the patient properly monitored in a setting equipped and staffed for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. In non-emergency situations, if a salmidorphan-treated patient requires opiate agonist treatment (e.g., for analgesia) discontinue salmidorphan at least 5 days before opioid treatment. Salmidorphan, as an opioid antagonist, may cause opioid treatment to be less effective or ineffective shortly after salmidorphan discontinuation. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with olanzapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with olanzapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking olanzapine.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with hydrocodone may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of oliceridine with hydrocodone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking other opioid agonists. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Olutasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with olutasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If olutasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and olutasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Omaveloxolone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with rifabutin is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If rifabutin is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Ondansetron: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Opicapone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with oritavancin is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If oritavancin is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Orphenadrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with orphenadrine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with orphenadrine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking orphenadrine.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like osilodrostat can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If osilodrostat is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Oxazepam: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
OXcarbazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with oxcarbazepine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If oxcarbazepine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and oxcarbazepine is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and oxybutynin use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Palbociclib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of palbociclib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like palbociclib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If palbociclib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as hydrocodone and paliperidone, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Palonosetron: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Panobinostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with panobinostat may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of panobinostat could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If panobinostat is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Panobinostat is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Careful monitoring, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment, is recommended during coadministration of hydrocodone and paroxetine because of the potential risk of serotonin syndrome and prolonged opioid adverse reactions. Discontinue hydrocodone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Concomitant use of hydrocodone with paroxetine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of paroxetine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If paroxetine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Paroxetine is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of pazopanib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like pazopanib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If pazopanib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Minor) The metabolism of hydrocodone to its active metabolite, hydromorphone, is dependent on CYP2D6. Theoretically, coadministration of hydrocodone and a CYP2D6 inhibitor, such as peginterferon alfa-2b, may result in a reduction in the analgesic effect of hydrocodone.
Pegvisomant: (Moderate) In clinical trials, patients taking opiate agonists often required higher serum pegvisomant concentrations to achieve appropriate IGF-I suppression compared with patients not receiving opiate agonists. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of pentazocine and opiate agonists, such as hydrocodone. Pentazocine is a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist that may block the effects of opiate agonists and reduce analgesic effects of hydrocodone. Pentazocine may cause withdrawal symptoms in patients receiving chronic opiate agonists. Concurrent use of pentazocine with other opiate agonists can cause additive CNS, respiratory, and hypotensive effects. The additive or antagonistic effects are dependent upon the dose of the opiate agonist used; antagonistic effects are more common at low to moderate doses of the opiate agonist.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perphenazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perphenazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perphenazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tricyclic antidepressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tricyclic antidepressants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perphenazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perphenazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perphenazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pexidartinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If pexidartinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Phenelzine: (Major) The use of hydrocodone is not recommended in patients who have received a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) within the past 14 days or are currently taking an MAOI due to a risk for serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity, including respiratory depression. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small opioid doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome and CNS and respiratory depression.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Major) Reserve concomitant use of hydrocodone and atropine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Major) Reserve concomitant use of hydrocodone and scopolamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with topiramate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with phenytoin can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If phenytoin is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. Drugs that may cause additive CNS effects include pimozide.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of pirtobrutinib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like pirtobrutinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If pirtobrutinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Polyethylene Glycol: (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as polyethylene glycol, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes: (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events. (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as polyethylene glycol, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Ascorbic Acid: (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events. (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as polyethylene glycol, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Bisacodyl: (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as bisacodyl, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events. (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as polyethylene glycol, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of posaconazole is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like posaconazole can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If posaconazole is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Posaconazole and acetaminophen should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for acetaminophen-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of acetaminophen. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for acetaminophen-related adverse events.
Pramipexole: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pramipexole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking pramipexole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with pramipexole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like pramipexole have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Pramlintide: (Major) Pramlintide slows gastric emptying and the rate of nutrient delivery to the small intestine. Medications with the potential to slow GI motility, such as opiate agonists, should be used with caution, if at all, with pramlintide until more data are available from the manufacturer. Monitor blood glucose. (Minor) Because pramlintide has the potential to delay the absorption of concomitantly administered medications, medications should be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after pramlintide injection when the rapid onset of a concomitantly administered oral medication is a critical determinant of effectiveness (i.e., analgesics).
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Consider the use of a parenteral anti-platelet agent for patients with acute coronary syndrome who require concomitant opioid agonists. Coadministration of opioid agonists with prasugrel delays and reduces the absorption of prasugrel's active metabolite due to slowed gastric emptying.
Pregabalin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pregabalin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking pregabalin. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with pregabalin to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of primaquine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like primaquine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If primaquine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Primidone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with prochlorperazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Concurrent administration of prochlorperazine is contraindicated in patients receiving large doses of opiate agonists. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking prochlorperazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with prochlorperazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with promethazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking promethazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with promethazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce the opioid dose by one-quarter to one-half; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with promethazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking promethazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with promethazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce the opioid dose by one-quarter to one-half; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with promethazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking promethazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with promethazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce the opioid dose by one-quarter to one-half; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with propafenone may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of propafenone could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If propafenone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Propafenone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Propofol: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with a general anesthetic may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients receiving a general anesthetic. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a general anesthetic to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Protriptyline: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tricyclic antidepressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tricyclic antidepressants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with triprolidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with triprolidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
pyRIDostigmine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pyridostigmine may exacerbate pyridostigmine-induced bradycardia. Monitor patients closely for adverse reactions during concurrent therapy.
Quazepam: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with quetiapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with quetiapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking quetiapine.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with quinidine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of quinidine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If quinidine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Quinidine is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of quinine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like quinine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If quinine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ramelteon may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking ramelteon. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with ramelteon to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ranolazine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like ranolazine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If ranolazine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Rasagiline: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of hydrocodone in patients receiving rasagiline or within 14 days of stopping treatment with rasagiline due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity, including respiratory depression.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of relacorilant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like relacorilant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If relacorilant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Remdesivir: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of remdesivir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like remdesivir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If remdesivir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
Remimazolam: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Repotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If repotrectinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ribociclib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ribociclib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ribociclib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ribociclib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ribociclib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ribociclib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with rifabutin is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If rifabutin is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of acetaminophen with rifampin may increase the known risk of hepatotoxicity in relation to each drug. Severe hepatic dysfunction including fatalities were reported in patients taking rifampin with other hepatotoxic agents. (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with rifampin can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If rifampin is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with rifapentine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If rifapentine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentration; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like rilzabrutinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rilzabrutinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression. Drugs that may cause additive CNS effects include risperidone.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ritlecitinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ritlecitinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ritonavir is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ritonavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ritonavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Rolapitant: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with rolapitant may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of rolapitant could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If rolapitant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Rolapitant is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. The inhibitory effect of rolapitant is expected to persist beyond 28 days for an unknown duration.
rOPINIRole: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue ropivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) The use of these drugs together must be approached with caution. Although commonly used together for additive analgesic effects, the patient must be monitored for respiratory depression, hypotension, and excessive sedation due to additive effects on the CNS and blood pressure. In rare instances, serious morbidity and mortality has occurred. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with local anesthetics to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. The use of the local anesthetic will allow for the use a lower initial dose of the opiate and then the doses can be titrated to proper clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Rotigotine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with rotigotine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking rotigotine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with rotigotine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like rotigotine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like rucaparib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If rucaparib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Scopolamine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of hydrocodone and scopolamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Secobarbital: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Selegiline: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of hydrocodone in patients receiving selegiline or within 14 days of stopping treatment with selegiline due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity, including respiratory depression.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of selpercatinib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like selpercatinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If selpercatinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and methylphenidate derivatives is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Serotonin-Receptor Antagonists: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Careful monitoring, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment, is recommended during coadministration of hydrocodone and sertraline because of the potential risk of serotonin syndrome and prolonged opioid adverse reactions. Discontinue hydrocodone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Concomitant use of hydrocodone with sertraline may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sertraline could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If sertraline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Sertraline is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If sevabertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with a general anesthetic may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients receiving a general anesthetic. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a general anesthetic to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with sodium oxybate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with sodium oxybate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If taurursodiol is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when hydrocodone is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as solifenacin. The concomitant use of hydrocodone and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Sorbitol: (Minor) Concurrent use of hydrocodone with strong laxatives that rapidly increase gastrointestinal motility, such as sorbitol, may decrease hydrocodone absorption. Closely monitor patients for changing analgesic requirements or adverse events.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with sotorasib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If sotorasib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of spironolactone is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like spironolactone can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If spironolactone is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. Additionally, monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when spironolactone is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of spironolactone is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like spironolactone can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If spironolactone is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. Additionally, monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when spironolactone is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with St. John's Wort can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If St. John's Wort is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum induces cytochrome P450 1A2. About 10 to 15% of the acetaminophen dose undergoes oxidative metabolism via cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2E1, 3A4 and 1A2, which produces the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinonimine. Thus, theoretically St. John's wort might increase the risk of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to NAPQI.
Stiripentol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with stiripentol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking stiripentol. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with stiripentol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of hydrocodone resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
Streptogramins: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dalfopristin; quinupristin is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like dalfopristin; quinupristin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If dalfopristin; quinupristin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with other CNS depressants may lead to hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression and death. Prior to concurrent use of hydrocodone in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Hydrocodone should be used in reduced dosages if used concurrently with a CNS depressant; initiate hydrocodone at 20 to 30% of the usual dosage in patients that are concurrently receiving another CNS depressant. Also consider a using a lower dose of the CNS depressant. Monitor patients for sedation and respiratory depression.
SUMAtriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Suzetrigine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of tapentadol with hydrocodone may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of tapentadol with hydrocodone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tapentadol. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tasimelteon may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking tasimelteon. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tasimelteon to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tazemetostat: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tazemetostat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If tazemetostat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and tazemetostat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Telotristat Ethyl: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with telotristat is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If telotristat is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and telotristat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Temazepam: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Terbinafine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with terbinafine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of terbinafine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If terbinafine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6; terbinafine is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Additive effects are possible when tetrabenazine is combined with other drugs that cause CNS depression. Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as hydrocodone, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Tetracaine: (Major) Due to the central nervous system depression potential of all local anesthetics, they should be used with caution with other agents that can cause respiratory depression, such as opiate agonists. Excitation or depression of the CNS may be the first manifestation of CNS toxicity. Restlessness, anxiety, tinnitus, dizziness, blurred vision, tremors, depression, or drowsiness may be early warning signs of CNS toxicity. After each local anesthetic injection, careful and constant monitoring of ventilation adequacy, cardiovascular vital signs, and the patient's state of consciousness is advised. (Moderate) Coadministration of tetracaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue tetracaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ivacaftor is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ivacaftor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ivacaftor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of opioid agonists with thalidomide due to the risk of additive CNS depression.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Thioridazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with thioridazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking thioridazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with thioridazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with thiothixene may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Additive CNS depression may occur. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of thiothixene could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If thiothixene is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Thiothixene is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Consider the use of a parenteral antiplatelet agent for patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) who require concomitant hydrocodone. Coadministration of opioid agonists with ticagrelor delays and reduces the absorption of ticagrelor's active metabolite due to slowed gastric emptying. Mean ticagrelor exposure decreased up to 36% in ACS patients undergoing PCI when other opioid agonists were administered with a loading dose of ticagrelor; mean platelet aggregation was also higher up to 3 hours post loading dose. Additionally, consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ticagrelor is necessary. Avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ticagrelor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ticagrelor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
tiZANidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Tolcapone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when hydrocodone is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug, such as tolterodine. The concomitant use of hydrocodone and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with topiramate is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If topiramate is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a loop diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the loop diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
Tovorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tradipitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as tradipitant. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with tramadol may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of hydrocodone with tramadol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Additionally, monitor patients for seizures and/or the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with tramadol may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of hydrocodone with tramadol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Additionally, monitor patients for seizures and/or the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of verapamil is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like verapamil can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If verapamil is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) The use of hydrocodone is not recommended in patients who have received a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) within the past 14 days or are currently taking an MAOI due to a risk for serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity, including respiratory depression. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small opioid doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome and CNS and respiratory depression.
traZODone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of excessive sedation, somnolence, and serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with trazodone. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with trazodone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of excessive CNS depression and serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Treosulfan: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of treosulfan is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like treosulfan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If treosulfan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of triamterene and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of triamterene as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of triamterene and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of triamterene as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
Triazolam: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tricyclic antidepressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tricyclic antidepressants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with trifluoperazine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking trifluoperazine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with trifluoperazine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and trihexyphenidyl use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Trimipramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tricyclic antidepressants may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tricyclic antidepressants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with triprolidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with triprolidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If trofinetide is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of tucatinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like tucatinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If tucatinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with valerian may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with valerian to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with valproic acid may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking valproic acid. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with valproic acid to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and acetaminophen may result in altered concentrations of acetaminophen. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 and CYP2A6, and an inducer of CYP3A4. Acetaminophen is a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy. (Moderate) Hydrocodone is metabolized by CYP3A4. Vemurafenib, an inducer of CYP3A4, may cause increased clearance of hydrocodone, which could result in lack of efficacy or the development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. Monitor the patient for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone. A higher hydrocodone dose may be needed if used with vemurafenib.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with venlafaxine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of venlafaxine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If venlafaxine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Venlafaxine is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6. Also, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Vepdegestrant: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of verapamil is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like verapamil can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If verapamil is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given with opiate agonists.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of excessive sedation, somnolence, and serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with vilazodone. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of excessive CNS depression and serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with viloxazine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of viloxazine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If viloxazine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vonoprazan is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like vonoprazan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If vonoprazan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vonoprazan is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like vonoprazan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If vonoprazan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of clarithromycin is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like clarithromycin can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If clarithromycin is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vonoprazan is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like vonoprazan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If vonoprazan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Vorasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voriconazole is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like voriconazole can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If voriconazole is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with vortioxene. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like voxelotor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If voxelotor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Warfarin: (Minor) Although acetaminophen is routinely considered safer than aspirin and agent of choice when a mild analgesic/antipyretic is necessary for a patient receiving therapy with warfarin, acetaminophen has also been shown to augment the hypoprothrombinemic response to warfarin. Concomitant acetaminophen ingestion may result in increases in the INR in a dose-related fashion. Clinical bleeding has been reported. Single doses or short (i.e., several days) courses of treatment with acetaminophen are probably safe in most patients taking warfarin. Clinicians should be alert for an increased INR if acetaminophen is administered in large daily doses for longer than 10 to 14 days.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like xanomeline can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If xanomeline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when trospium, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of zafirlukast is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like zafirlukast can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If zafirlukast is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Zaleplon: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with zaleplon may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., driving, talking, eating, or performing other activities while not fully awake). Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking zaleplon. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with zaleplon to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Instruct patients to contact their provider immediately if sleep-related symptoms or behaviors occur. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Ziftomenib: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ziftomenib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Because of the potential for additive sedation and CNS depression, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with ziprasidone. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. There are case reports of serotonin syndrome with use of ziprasidone postmarketing but causality is not established. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
ZOLMitriptan: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. (Minor) Zolmitriptan can delay the Tmax of acetaminophen by one hour. A single 1 g dose of acetaminophen does not alter the pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan and its active metabolite. The interaction between zolmitriptan and acetaminophen is not likely to be clinically significant.
Zolpidem: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with zolpidem may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., driving, talking, eating, or performing other activities while not fully awake). Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking zolpidem. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with zolpidem to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Instruct patients to contact their provider immediately if sleep-related symptoms or behaviors occur. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. For Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets, reduce the dose to 1.75 mg/night.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.


Adverse Reaction
neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal


Hydrocodone is a controlled substance with a high potential for abuse and psychological dependence. Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physiological dependence and tolerance, which can develop during chronic opioid therapy. In postmarketing studies, addiction, abuse, misuse, and fatal and non-fatal opioid overdose were observed in subjects with long-term opioid use. In a prospective, 12-month observational cohort study in individuals initiating long-term use of Schedule II opioid analgesics, 1% to 6% of subjects across 2 cohorts met the criteria for addiction. Approximately 9% and 22% of subjects newly met the criteria for prescription opioid abuse and misuse, respectively. In a retrospective, observational cohort study in individuals with new long-term use of Schedule II opioid analgesics, the 5-year cumulative incidence estimates for opioid-involved overdose or opioid overdose-related death ranged from approximately 1.5% to 4% across study sites, counting only the first event during follow-up. Approximately 17% of first opioid overdoses observed over the entire study period (5 to 11 years) were fatal. Higher baseline opioid dose was the strongest and most consistent predictor of opioid-involved overdose or opioid overdose-related death. Tolerance is characterized by a reduced response to a drug after repeated administration. Physiological dependence develops as a result of repeated drug use. It manifests with a withdrawal syndrome after abrupt discontinuation or significant dose reduction, or administration of an agent with opioid antagonist activity (e.g., naloxone). Withdrawal is characterized by restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other symptoms include irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome (NOWS) may occur in neonates and infants exposed to opioids in utero. Withdrawal symptoms may include irritability, hyperactivity, abnormal sleep pattern, high-pitched cry, tremor, vomiting, diarrhea, and failure to gain weight. Onset, duration, and severity of opioid withdrawal may vary based on the specific opioid used, duration of use, timing and amount of last maternal use, and rate of elimination by the infant. Exposed newborns should be monitored closely. NOWS can be life-threatening if not recognized and treated. Treatment should be managed by clinicians experienced with neonatal withdrawal.


tolerance


Pharmacologic tolerance can develop during chronic opioid therapy. Tolerance is the need for increasing opioid doses to maintain initial pain relief. Typically, tolerance presents as a decrease in the duration of analgesia and can be managed by increasing the opioid dose or frequency. There is no limit to tolerance, thus some patients may require very large doses of opioid analgesics to control their pain. When increasing doses of analgesia are required, causes may be multi-factorial including tolerance, progression of disease, or psychologic distress.


respiratory arrest, respiratory depression


Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on clinical status.


constipation, hyperamylasemia, nausea, opioid-induced esophageal dysfunction, vomiting


Nausea and vomiting are among the most common adverse reactions reported with acetaminophen; hydrocodone. Other gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported with acetaminophen; hydrocodone include constipation. Hydrocodone causes a reduction in motility associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in the antrum of the stomach and duodenum. Digestion of food in the small intestine is delayed, and propulsive contractions are decreased. Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased, while tone may be increased to the point of spasm, resulting in constipation. Other opioid-induced effects may include a reduction in biliary and pancreatic secretions, spasm of sphincter of Oddi, and transient elevations in serum amylase (e.g., hyperamylasemia). Additionally, cases of opioid-induced esophageal dysfunction (OIED) have been reported in individuals taking opioids. The risk of OIED may increase as the dose and/or duration of opioids increases. Regularly evaluate individuals for signs and symptoms of OIED (e.g., dysphagia, regurgitation, non-cardiac chest pain), and if necessary, adjust opioid therapy as clinically appropriate.


abdominal pain, anorexia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, malaise


The hepatic effects of acetaminophen are well-known. In a study of combined data collected over a 5-year period from 22 specialty medical centers in the United States, acetaminophen-induced liver injury was the leading cause of acute hepatic failure. Unintentional overdose accounted for almost half of the reported cases; acetaminophen toxicity may occur as the result of acute overdose or chronic excessive dosing. Acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity is manifested as hepatic necrosis, jaundice, and hepatic encephalopathy. Early nonspecific symptoms include nausea/vomiting, anorexia, abdominal pain, and malaise. After acute overdose, elevated hepatic enzymes occur within 12 to 36 hours and maximal liver damage and hepatic impairment peak 3 to 5 days after ingestion. GI bleeding can occur secondary to hypoprothrombinemia. Administration of intravenous vitamin K is recommended for hypoprothrombinemia due to acetaminophen overdosage. If more than 150 to 200 mg/kg, 10 g, or an unknown amount of acetaminophen is ingested, obtain a serum acetaminophen concentration 4 hours after ingestion or as soon as possible thereafter. Promptly administer N-acetylcysteine (NAC), which serves as a substitute sulfhydryl donor for glutathione, if the acetaminophen concentration plots above the treatment line on the Rumack-Matthew nomogram. NAC treatment should begin immediately if the estimated time after ingestion approaches 8 hours. Avoid acetaminophen misuse; do not exceed recommended doses and account for intake from all sources (e.g., single-entity products and combination products). Excessive acetaminophen exposure, malnutrition, concurrent ethanol consumption (acute and chronic), and/or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid) may lead to greater exposure of the toxic metabolite, N-acetyl-para-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI), and increase the risk for toxicity.


interstitial nephritis, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis, urinary retention


Genitourinary adverse effects reported with acetaminophen; hydrocodone include ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention. Acetaminophen has been associated with chronic analgesic nephropathy, a condition characterized by interstitial nephritis and renal papillary necrosis in patients receiving large doses of analgesics for an extended period of time. Though the National Kidney Foundation states there is negligible evidence to suggest chronic acetaminophen use causes analgesic nephropathy, they have recognized a weak association between chronic use and the prevalence of chronic renal failure and end-stage renal disease. In addition, acetaminophen overdose can result in acute renal failure and renal tubular necrosis, though such toxicity rarely occurs without severe hepatic toxicity.


anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, dysphoria, impaired cognition, lethargy, psychomotor impairment


Dizziness, drowsiness, and light-headedness are among the most common adverse reactions reported with acetaminophen; hydrocodone. Other central nervous system adverse reactions reported with acetaminophen; hydrocodone include anxiety, fear, dysphoria, impaired cognition, lethargy, mental clouding, mood changes, and psychomotor impairment.


agranulocytosis, hemolysis, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis


Hematologic adverse events reported with acetaminophen; hydrocodone include agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenia. Sporadic case reports of thrombocytosis, neutropenia, and pancytopenia have been described in persons taking acetaminophen. Drug-induced hemolysis and hemolytic anemia have been associated with acetaminophen overdose in persons with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Though several case reports of hemolytic anemia in G6PD-deficient persons receiving therapeutic doses of acetaminophen exist, a direct cause and effect relationship has not been well established. Monitor G6PD-deficient persons presenting with acetaminophen toxicity closely for signs and symptoms of hemolysis.


purpura


A case of acquired purpura fulminans developed in a 32-year-old woman who was instructed to take acetaminophen 1,000 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. The patient noted rapidly spreading purpuric lesions and associated edema. Her lesions were nonblanchable and enlarging, and she had multiple purplish-black hemorrhagic and necrotic areas. Purpura fulminans is usually associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation and can occur in patients with inherited or acquired deficiencies of the protein C anticoagulant pathway. Based on the patient's history of alcohol use and poor nutritional status, the authors concluded that reduced hepatic glutathione stores were further reduced by the introduction of acetaminophen, leading to impaired protein C and S synthesis and propagation of the disseminated intravascular coagulation cascade. Discontinuation of alcohol and acetaminophen and administration of vitamin K, heparin, and a systemic antibiotic led to almost complete purpuric lesion and hepatotoxicity resolution in 6 days.


acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis


Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), SJS, and TEN, which can be fatal. Dermatologic adverse reactions reported with acetaminophen; hydrocodone include pruritus, skin rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). Discontinue acetaminophen; hydrocodone at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity.


hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, syncope


Acetaminophen; hydrocodone may cause severe hypotension, including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory persons.


miosis


Hydrocodone causes miosis, even in total darkness. Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen due to hypoxia in overdose situations.


hearing loss


Hearing impairment or permanent hearing loss have been reported with acetaminophen; hydrocodone, predominantly in persons with chronic overdose. Prospective studies have shown there to be a slight but consistent association between regular analgesic use and hearing loss. Acetaminophen-related ototoxicity may result from depletion of glutathione, which protects the cochlea from noise damage. As a true long-term association may exist, counsel patients to minimize long-term treatment with acetaminophen as much as possible. A prospective analysis examining the association between analgesic use and the risk of hearing loss was conducted in 62,261 women 31 to 48 years of age at study enrollment who were originally enrolled in the Nurses' Health Study II. The association between self-reported hearing loss and analgesic use (including acetaminophen, aspirin, and NSAIDs) was examined over 14 years. During 764,247 person-years of follow-up, 10,012 cases of hearing loss were reported. After adjustment for confounders, acetaminophen use 2 or more days per week was independently associated with an increased risk of hearing loss, with the relative risk of hearing loss increasing with increasing frequency of use. Acetaminophen use 2 to 3, 4 to 5, or 6 or more days per week was associated with relative risks of 1.11 (95% CI 1.02 to 1.19), 1.21 (95% CI 1.07 to 1.37), and 1.08 (95% CI 0.95 to 1.22), respectively (p = 0.0007). Of note, those with more frequent use of acetaminophen had higher body mass indices; were more likely to smoke, have hypertension, or have diabetes; and were less physically active. In a similar study in male patients, the association between professionally diagnosed hearing loss and analgesic use (including acetaminophen, aspirin, and NSAIDs) was prospectively analyzed in 26,917 patients 40 to 74 years of age at study enrollment over 18 years. During 369,079 person-years of follow-up, 3,488 cases of hearing loss were reported. After adjustment for confounders, the hazard ratio (HR) for acetaminophen-associated hearing loss was 1.22 (95% CI 1.07 to 1.39, p = 0.09) in patients who were regular users of the drug (at least 2 times weekly) compared to those with less use. Men who regularly used acetaminophen for 4 years or more were 33% (14% to 56%) more likely to develop hearing loss than those with shorter use. In men younger than 50 years, the HR of hearing loss was 1.99 (95% CI 1.34 to 2.95); the degree of association generally decreased with aging. These studies do suggest association; however, data are based on patient reporting of the outcomes. Information regarding noise exposure and analgesic doses was not provided.


amenorrhea, gonadal suppression, hyponatremia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), infertility, libido decrease, SIADH


Opioid agonists can interfere with the endocrine system by inhibiting the secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol, and luteinizing hormone (LH), and by stimulating secretion of prolactin, growth hormone (GH), insulin, and glucagon. Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, leading to hormonal changes that may manifest as hypogonadism (gonadal suppression). Although the exact causal role of opioids in the clinical manifestations of hypogonadism is unknown, patients could experience libido decrease, impotence (erectile dysfunction), amenorrhea, or infertility. Other various medical, physical, lifestyle, and psychological stressors may influence gonadal hormone concentrations; these stressors have not been adequately controlled for in clinical studies with opioids. Patients presenting with signs or symptoms of androgen deficiency should undergo laboratory evaluation. Opioid agonists can inhibit the release of thyrotropin, leading to a decrease in thyroid hormone. Hydrocodone and related compounds can stimulate the release of vasopressin (ADH). Hyponatremia can occur as a result of SIADH.


adrenocortical insufficiency


Opioids may interfere with the endocrine system by inhibiting the secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol. Rarely, adrenocortical insufficiency has been reported in association with opioid use. Patients should seek immediate medical attention if they experience symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, or hypotension. If adrenocortical insufficiency is suspected, confirm with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If diagnosed, the patient should be treated with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids, and if appropriate, weaned off of opioid therapy. If the opioid can be discontinued, a follow-up assessment of adrenal function should be performed to determine if corticosteroid treatment can be discontinued. Other opioids may be tried; some cases reported use of a different opioid with no recurrence of adrenocortical insufficiency. It is unclear which, if any, opioids are more likely to cause adrenocortical insufficiency.


serotonin syndrome


Serotonin syndrome has been reported in patients taking opioids at recommended doses. Patients taking opioids concomitantly with a serotonergic medication should seek immediate medical attention if they develop symptoms such as agitation, hallucinations, tachycardia, fever, excessive sweating, shivering or shaking, muscle twitching or stiffness, trouble with coordination, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea. Symptoms generally present within hours to days of taking an opioid with another serotonergic agent, but may also occur later, particularly after a dosage increase. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, either the opioid and/or the other agent should be discontinued.


elevated creatine kinase, rhabdomyolysis


Acetaminophen-induced rhabdomyolysis has been described in a case report. A 17-year-old male with a past medical history of drug-induced reactions (hepatitis, agranulocytosis, desquamative dermatitis, and pyrexia) after receiving acetaminophen with or without concurrent antibiotics, was rechallenged with oral acetaminophen 400 mg. Within 5 hours of administration, the adolescent presented with febrile exanthema, neutropenia, and elevated creatine kinase, C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, and interleukin-10; the skin eruption and fever lasted 36 hours. Investigate symptoms such as unusual tiredness, weakness or unusual pain and swelling of the extremities, nausea and vomiting, and dark-colored urine promptly.


hyperalgesia


Cases of opioid-induced hyperalgesia (OIH) have been reported, both with short-term and longer-term use of opioids. OIH occurs when an opioid paradoxically causes an increase in pain or an increase in sensitivity to pain. Symptoms of OIH include increased levels of pain upon opioid dosage increase, decreased levels of pain upon opioid dosage decrease, or pain from ordinarily non-painful stimuli (allodynia). These symptoms may suggest OIH only if there is no evidence of underlying disease progression, opioid tolerance, opioid withdrawal, or addictive behavior. Data suggests a strong biologic plausibility between opioids and OIH and allodynia. If OIH is suspected, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic or opioid rotation (safely switching to a different opioid).


anaphylactoid reactions


Allergic or anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with acetaminophen; hydrocodone. Anaphylaxis has been reported with acetaminophen and hydrocodone. There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with the use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue acetaminophen; hydrocodone immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms.


hypoglycemia


Hypoglycemia has been reported during opioid therapy. Most reports occurred in persons with at least 1 predisposing risk factor, such as diabetes.


Description

Acetaminophen; hydrocodone is an oral combination of a para-aminophenol analgesic and opioid agonist indicated for the treatment of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Administration of acetaminophen in doses higher than recommended may result in hepatic injury, including the risk of liver failure and death; therefore, the maximum recommended daily dose of acetaminophen is not to be exceeded. The maximum recommended daily dose of acetaminophen includes all routes of acetaminophen administration and all acetaminophen-containing products administered, including combination products. Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended.

Mechanism Of Action

Acetaminophen acts within the CNS to increase the pain threshold by inhibiting central cyclooxygenase, an enzyme involved in prostaglandin (PG) synthesis. Acetaminophen inhibits both isoforms of central cyclooxygenase (COX), COX-1 and COX-2. Acetaminophen does not inhibit PG synthesis in peripheral tissues, which is the reason for its lack of peripheral anti-inflammatory effects. Hydrocodone is a full opioid agonist with relative selectivity for the mu-opioid receptor, although it can interact with other opioid receptors at higher doses. The principal therapeutic action of hydrocodone is analgesia. Like all full opioid agonists, there is no ceiling effect for analgesia with hydrocodone. The precise mechanism of the analgesic action is unknown. However, specific CNS opioid receptors for endogenous compounds with opioid-like activity have been identified throughout the brain and spinal cord and are thought to play a role in the analgesic effects of hydrocodone.

Pharmacokinetics

Acetaminophen; hydrocodone is administered orally.
Acetaminophen: At therapeutic concentrations, protein binding of acetaminophen is about 10% to 25%. Acetaminophen is widely distributed throughout most body tissues except fat; low protein binding and molecular weight allow blood-brain barrier penetration. Vd of acetaminophen is approximately 1 L/kg in children and adults. Acetaminophen is primarily metabolized in the liver by first-order kinetics and involves 3 separate pathways: glucuronidation, sulfate conjugation, and cytochrome P450 oxidation. Glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation are the major routes of metabolism, while a small amount of drug undergoes oxidative metabolism via CYP2E1 producing the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI). At therapeutic doses, NAPQI is rapidly conjugated with glutathione to form inert cysteine and mercapturic acid metabolites. The P450 isoenzymes 1A2 and 3A4 appear to have a minor role in the metabolism of acetaminophen. Supratherapeutic or repeated therapeutic doses of acetaminophen, fasting, and alcoholism may deplete glutathione stores, leading to increased concentrations of NAPQI and hepatotoxicity. The elimination half-life of acetaminophen is 2 to 3 hours in healthy adults. Acetaminophen is renally excreted primarily as the glucuronide conjugate (40% to 65%) and sulfate metabolite (25% to 35%). Mercapturic acid and cysteine metabolites account for 5% to 12% of the urinary metabolites; less than 5% is excreted as unchanged drug.
Hydrocodone: Plasma protein binding is minimal at 36%. Hydrocodone is metabolized to norhydrocodone and hydromorphone. CYP3A4 mediated N-demethylation to norhydrocodone is the primary metabolic pathway of hydrocodone with a lower contribution from CYP2D6 mediated O-demethylation to hydromorphone. Hydrocodone and its metabolites are eliminated primarily in the kidneys. After administration of an oral dose of hydrocodone 10 mg in 5 adult males, the half-life was 3.8 +/- 0.3 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4
Acetaminophen: Although acetaminophen is primarily metabolized via glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation, it is also a substrate of CYP2E1. Drugs that induce CYP2E1 may increase the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite and therefore increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Because CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 have negligible contribution to acetaminophen metabolism, the enzymes are unlikely to affect toxic metabolite formation.
Hydrocodone: Hydrocodone is metabolized to norhydrocodone via CYP3A4 and to hydromorphone via CYP2D6. The formation of these metabolites may theoretically be affected by drugs that inhibit/induce these enzymes.


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route


Acetaminophen: Immediate-release acetaminophen is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, primarily the small intestine. Bioavailability ranges from 85% to 98%. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 30 to 60 minutes and range from 7.7 to 17.6 mcg/mL after a single 1,000 mg dose and 7.9 to 27 mcg/mL at steady-state after 1,000 mg every 6 hours in adults. Maximum concentrations of acetaminophen are delayed with concurrent food administration, however the extent of absorption is not affected.
Hydrocodone: After a 10 mg oral dose of hydrocodone given to 5 adult males, the mean Cmax was 23.6 +/- 5.2 ng/mL. Tmax was achieved at 1.3 +/- 0.3 hours.


Hepatic Impairment


Acetaminophen: The half-life of acetaminophen may be prolonged in persons with hepatic disease.
Hydrocodone: Persons with hepatic impairment may have higher plasma hydrocodone concentrations than those with normal function.


Renal Impairment


Acetaminophen: In severe renal impairment (CrCl 10 to 30 mL/minute), the elimination of acetaminophen is slightly delayed, with an elimination half-life of 2 to 5.3 hours. In addition, the elimination of sulfate and glucuronide conjugates is 3 times slower in persons with severe renal impairment than in healthy subjects, leading to potential accumulation.
Hydrocodone: Persons with renal impairment may have higher plasma hydrocodone concentrations than those with normal function.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


May be taken with food or milk to minimize GI irritation.
Storage: Keep acetaminophen; hydrocodone secured in a location not accessible by others.
Disposal: Flush unused medication down the toilet when it is no longer needed if a drug take-back option is not readily available.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Hydrocodone 60 mg/day PO and acetaminophen 2,600 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

Hydrocodone 60 mg/day PO and acetaminophen 2,600 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

46 kg or more: Hydrocodone 45 mg/day PO and acetaminophen 1,950 mg/day PO.
32 to 45 kg: Hydrocodone 30 mg/day PO and acetaminophen 1,300 mg/day PO.

Children

2 to 12 years and 23 to 31 kg: Hydrocodone 22.5 mg/day PO and acetaminophen 975 mg/day PO.
2 to 12 years and 16 to 22 kg: Hydrocodone 15 mg/day PO and acetaminophen 650 mg/day PO.
2 to 12 years and 12 to 15 kg: Hydrocodone 11.25 mg/day PO and acetaminophen 487.5 mg/day PO.
1 year or less than 12 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Dosage should be modified depending upon the clinical response and degree of hepatic impairment. No quantitative recommendations are available.

Renal Impairment

Dosage should be modified depending upon the clinical response and degree of renal impairment. No quantitative recommendations are available.

© 2026 Elsevier