=== Aceclidine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5618)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Aceclidine is an ophthalmic cholinergic muscarinic agonist, a predominately pupil selective miotic agent, indicated for the treatment of presbyopia in adults.

Routes: ophthalmic; Common adult doses: 2 drops/day in each eye.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): application site reaction, blepharedema, conjunctivitis, headache, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pruritus, rash

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Miotics such as aceclidine may cause accommodative spasm.

ACECLIDINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

VIZZ

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of presbyopia in adults

Ophthalmic dosage (ophthalmic solution 1.44%)
Adults


Instill 1 drop in each eye, wait 2 minutes and instill a second drop in each eye once daily from the same single-dose vial.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Miotics such as aceclidine may cause accommodative spasm. Use caution in driving or operating machinery or activities requiring coordination and concentration if vision is not clear (e.g., blurred vision). Patients may experience temporary dim or dark vision and should exercise caution in night driving and other hazardous activities during poor illumination.


retinal disease


Rare cases of retinal tear and detachment have been reported with miotics when used in susceptible individuals and those with pre-existing retinal disease. Examination of the retina is advised in all patients prior to the initiation of treatment with aceclidine. Patients should be advised to seek immediate care with sudden onset of flashing lights, floaters, or vision loss.


iritis


Caution is advised when using aceclidine in people with a history of iritis. Sequelae of ocular inflammation, i.e., adhesions (synechiae) between the iris and the lens, may be exacerbated with miotic use in people with a known history of iritis.


pregnancy


There are no adequate and well controlled studies of aceclidine administration during pregnancy to inform a drug associated risk. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of aceclidine to pregnant rats and rabbits throughout organogenesis and lactation did not produce adverse maternal, fetal or neonatal effects at clinically relevant doses.


breast-feeding


Use aceclidine with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known if aceclidine or its metabolite are found in human or animal milk. There are no data regarding the effects on the breastfed infant or milk production. Systemic levels of aceclidine and its metabolites following topical ocular administration are low, and it is not known whether measurable levels of aceclidine or its metabolites will be present in human milk following topical ocular administration. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for aceclidine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from aceclidine or from the underlying maternal condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate and well controlled studies of aceclidine administration during pregnancy to inform a drug associated risk. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of aceclidine to pregnant rats and rabbits throughout organogenesis and lactation did not produce adverse maternal, fetal or neonatal effects at clinically relevant doses.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Aceclidine products.

Adverse Reaction
blurred vision, miosis


Aceclidine causes pupillary miosis as its pharmacologic effect, and this makes the pupil less reactive to dim light. Patients may experience temporary dim or dark vision (blurred vision (16%)). Treated patients should exercise caution during night driving and other hazardous activities in poor illumination. The majority of adverse reactions reported during aceclidine clinical trials were mild, transient, and self-resolving.


conjunctival hyperemia


Conjunctival hyperemia (8%) and ocular hyperemia (7%) have been reported during clinical trials of aceclidine. The majority of adverse reactions reported during aceclidine clinical trials were mild, transient, and self-resolving.


application site reaction, blepharedema, conjunctivitis, headache, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pruritus, rash


Instillation site irritation / ocular irritation (20%) (application site reaction) and headache (13%) were reported during clinical trials of aceclidine and were common side effects. Sequelae of ocular inflammation, i.e., adhesions (synechiae) between the iris and the lens, may be exacerbated with miotic use in patients with a known history of iritis. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs (symptoms may include conjunctivitis, redness, stinging, ocular pruritus, swelling of the eyelid (blepharedema), ocular swelling, or rash), discontinue aceclidine use.


retinal detachment, visual impairment


Rare cases of retinal tear and retinal detachment have been reported with miotics when used in susceptible individuals and those with pre-existing retinal disease. Examination of the retina is advised in all patients prior to the initiation of treatment with aceclidine. Patients should be advised to seek immediate care with sudden onset of flashing lights, floaters, or visual impairment.


Description

Aceclidine is an ophthalmic cholinergic muscarinic agonist, a predominately pupil selective miotic agent, indicated for the treatment of presbyopia in adults. Presbyopia does not occur in the pediatric population. As with other agents that cause miosis, aceclidine may cause dim vision in low light conditions. Aceclidine was FDA approved in July 2025.

Mechanism Of Action

Aceclidine is a cholinergic muscarinic agonist that stimulates muscarinic receptors located on smooth muscles. Aceclidine is a predominately pupil selective miotic that interacts with the iris with minimal ciliary muscle stimulation after ophthalmic administration. Aceclidine causes contraction of the iris sphincter muscle, resulting in a pinhole effect that extends depth of focus to improve vision.

Pharmacokinetics

Aceclidine is administered via the ophthalmic route. Aceclidine undergoes hydrolysis in the eye to acetate and 3-quinuclidinol (3-Q) with one mole of aceclidine hydrolyzed to one mole of 3-Q. Pharmacokinetic studies are performed on the analysis of 3-Q, which is a metabolite formed from the hydrolysis of aceclidine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Other Route(s)

Ophthalmic topical route
Systemic exposure of aceclidine hydrochloride was evaluated in 16 subjects with presbyopia following once daily aceclidine administration (1 drop of aceclidine in each eye followed by a second drop in each eye 2 minutes later) for 8 days. The mean Cmax and AUC0-t values for 3-quinuclidinol (3-Q) after Day 8 dosing were 2.114 ng/mL and 4.899 ng x hour/mL, respectively. There was little to no accumulation of 3-Q after repeated once daily dosing of aceclidine. After 8 days, the mean (SD) RAUC0-t and RCmax values were 1.189 (0.770) and 0.996 (0.314), respectively. The half-life could not be estimated at any timepoint due to the limited amount of quantifiable 3-Q concentrations after ocular dosing.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Ophthalmic Administration

Ophthalmic Solution
Wash hands before administration.
To prevent eye injury or contamination, care should be taken to avoid touching the single-dose vial to the eye or to any other surface.
To open the vial, twist off the top.
Contact lenses should be removed prior to the instillation of aceclidine, and may be reinserted 10 minutes after instillation.
Instill 1 drop of the solution to each eye. Wait 2 minutes, then instill a second drop to each eye.
If more than one topical ophthalmic product is being used, the products should be administered at least 5 minutes apart.
Discard the opened single-dose vial after use.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

2 drops/day in each eye.

Geriatric

2 drops/day in each eye.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

VIZZ 1.44% Ophthalmic Solution

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier