=== Tovorafenib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5531)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Tovorafenib is a type II RAF kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of relapsed or refractory low-grade glioma with a BRAF fusion or rearrangement or a BRAF V600 mutation in pediatric patients 6 months of age and older.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Related Indications Heading for the treatment of relapsed or refractory low-grade gliomas (LGG) with a BRAF fusion or rearrangement or a BRAF V600 mutation Heading Oral dosage (Tablets) Heading Infants, Children, and Adolescents 6 months and older 380 mg/m2...

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, leukopenia, lymphocytosis, lymphopenia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, bleeding, epistaxis, gi bleeding, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, vaginal bleeding, acneiform rash, bullous rash, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, xerosis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoalbuminemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Tovorafenib may promote tumor growth in patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 tumor; therefore, confirm the presence of a BRAF alteration prior to starting tovorafenib therapy.... Patient counseling: Advise patients to use precautionary measures against ultraviolet exposure such as use of sunscreen, sunglasses, and/or protective clothing during treatment.

Brand Names
  - OJEMDA

Dosage Forms
  - Ojemda 100mg Tablet
  - OJEMDA 25mg/mL Powder for Suspension

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of relapsed or refractory low-grade gliomas (LGG) with a BRAF fusion or rearrangement or a BRAF V600 mutation
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage (Tablets)
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Infants, Children, and Adolescents 6 months and older
          Dosage Description
          380 mg/m2 (maximum dose, 600 mg) orally once weekly until disease progression. Dosage is based on body surface area (BSA) as follows: BSA of 0.9 to 1.12 m2, give 400 mg PO once weekly; BSA of 1.13 to 1.39 m2, give 500 mg PO once weekly; and BSA of 1.4 m2 or more, give 600 mg PO once weekly. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Interruption of therapy, a dosage reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients who develop toxicity. The overall response rate evaluated according to RAPNO-LGG and RANO-LGG criteria was 53% and 54%, respectively, in 76 evaluable patients with relapsed/refractory, RAF-altered pediatric low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib in a phase 2 (FIREFLY-1) trial. The median time to response was 5.4 months and the median duration of response was 18 months. Patients (median age, 8.5 years; range, 2 to 21 years) in this trial received a median of 3 (range, 1 to 9) prior systemic regimens; 59% of patients had received prior treatment with a MAP kinase pathway inhibitor.
        Heading
        Oral dosage (Suspension)
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Infants, Children, and Adolescents 6 months and older
          Dosage Description
          380 mg/m2 (maximum dose, 600 mg) orally once weekly until disease progression. Dosage is based on body surface area (BSA) as follows: BSA of 0.3 to 0.35 m2, give 125 mg (5 mL) PO once weekly; BSA of 0.36 to 0.42 m2, give 150 mg (6 L) PO once weekly; BSA of 0.43 to 0.48 m2, give 175 mg (7 mL) PO once weekly; BSA of 0.49 to 0.54 m2, give 200 mg (8 mL) PO once weekly; BSA of 0.55 to 0.63 m2, give 225 mg (9 mL) PO once weekly; BSA of 0.64 to 0.77 m2, give 275 mg (11 mL) PO once weekly; BSA of 0.78 to 0.83 m2, give 300 mg (12 mL) PO once weekly; BSA of 0.84 to 0.89 m2, give 350 mg (14 mL) PO once weekly; BSA of 0.9 to 1.05 m2, give 375 mg (15 mL) PO once weekly; BSA of 1.06 to 1.25 m2, give 450 mg (18 mL) PO once weekly; BSA of 1.26 to 1.39 m2, give 525 mg (21 mL) PO once weekly; and BSA of 1.4 m2 or more, give 600 mg (24 mL) PO once weekly. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Interruption of therapy, a dosage reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients who develop toxicity. The overall response rate evaluated according to RAPNO-LGG and RANO-LGG criteria was 53% and 54%, respectively, in 76 evaluable patients with relapsed/refractory, RAF-altered pediatric low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib in a phase 2 (FIREFLY-1) trial. The median time to response was 5.4 months and the median duration of response was 18 months. Patients (median age, 8.5 years; range, 2 to 21 years) in this trial received a median of 3 (range, 1 to 9) prior systemic regimens; 59% of patients had received prior treatment with a MAP kinase pathway inhibitor.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of malignant glioma

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Tovorafenib may promote tumor growth in patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 tumor; therefore, confirm the presence of a BRAF alteration prior to starting tovorafenib therapy.
    Headline
    bleeding disorder
    General Information
    Use tovorafenib with caution in patients with a bleeding disorder. Hemorrhagic events including epistaxis and intratumoral hemorrhage have occurred with tovorafenib therapy. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during therapy. Interruption of therapy, a dosage reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients who develop bleeding.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Tovorafenib may cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. In rats, oral administration during the period of organogenesis caused early resorptions and total litter loss at drug exposures approximately 0.8 times the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with tovorafenib. Tovorafenib can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective non-hormonal contraception while taking tovorafenib and for 28 days after the last dose; tovorafenib may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraception. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, non-hormonal contraception should be used during tovorafenib treatment and for 2 weeks after the last dose. Based on animal data, tovorafenib may impair male and female fertility. The effects on female fertility were not reversible.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding during tovorafenib treatment and for 2 weeks after the last dose due to the potential for serious side effects in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of tovorafenib or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed child, or the effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Tovorafenib may cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. In rats, oral administration during the period of organogenesis caused early resorptions and total litter loss at drug exposures approximately 0.8 times the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding during tovorafenib treatment and for 2 weeks after the last dose due to the potential for serious side effects in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of tovorafenib or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed child, or the effects on milk production.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with tovorafenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a weak CYP3A inducer like tovorafenib with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with tovorafenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with tovorafenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with tovorafenib is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with tovorafenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with tovorafenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely during coadministration of tovorafenib; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may decrease carbamazepine concentrations. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and tovorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with tovorafenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Clopidogrel: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and clopidogrel due to the risk for increased tovorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for tovorafenib-related adverse effects. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and clopidogrel is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clozapine effectiveness if coadministered with tovorafenib. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. When tovorafenib is discontinued, reduce the clozapine dose based on clinical response. Clozapine is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with tovorafenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with tovorafenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with tovorafenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with tovorafenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with tovorafenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with tovorafenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine concentrations and adjust the dose of cyclosporine as appropriate if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease cyclosporine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Cyclosporine is extensively metabolized by CYP3A and has a narrow therapeutic index; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Deferasirox: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and deferasirox due to the risk for increased tovorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for tovorafenib-related adverse effects. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and deferasirox is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Doravirine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and tovorafenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and tovorafenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and tovorafenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Drospirenone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of tovorafenib is necessary. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like tovorafenib with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Gemfibrozil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and gemfibrozil due to the risk for increased tovorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for tovorafenib-related adverse effects. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Leflunomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and leflunomide due to the risk for increased tovorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for tovorafenib-related adverse effects. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and leflunomide is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with tovorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and tovorafenib as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease mefloquine exposure and efficacy. Mefloquine is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease methadone exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and mifepristone due to the risk for increased tovorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for tovorafenib-related adverse effects. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and mifepristone is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with tovorafenib. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of tovorafenib is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and tovorafenib may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with tovorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with tovorafenib as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and pirtobrutinib due to the risk for increased tovorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for tovorafenib-related adverse effects. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and pirtobrutinib is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Progestins: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease tovorafenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and rifampin is a moderate CYP2C8 inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease tovorafenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and rifapentine is a moderate CYP2C8 inducer.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with tovorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of tovorafenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on tovorafenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and selpercatinib due to the risk for increased tovorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for tovorafenib-related adverse effects. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and selpercatinib is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an approximately 3-fold increase in sildenafil clearance with concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of tovorafenib. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if tovorafenib must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and sulfamethoxazole due to the risk for increased tovorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for tovorafenib-related adverse effects. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and sulfamethoxazole is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; a tacrolimus dose adjustment may be needed. Concurrent administration may decrease tacrolimus concentrations. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and teriflunomide due to the risk for increased tovorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for tovorafenib-related adverse effects. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and teriflunomide is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If tovorafenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with tovorafenib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with tovorafenib. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with tovorafenib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue was reported in 55% (grade 3 or 4, 4%) of patients (median age, 9 years; range, 1 to 24 years) with low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib once weekly (n = 137) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever was reported in 39% (grade 3 or 4, 4%) of patients (median age, 9 years; range, 1 to 24 years) with low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib once weekly (n = 137) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Edema was reported in 26% of patients (median age, 9 years; range, 1 to 24 years) with low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib once weekly (n = 137) in a clinical trial. The term edema includes lip edema, face edema, periorbital edema, peripheral edema, localized edema, and vulval edema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    infection, influenza
    General Information
    Infection, including viral infection (55%; grade 3 or 4, 7%), upper respiratory tract infection (31%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5%), and paronychia (26%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5%), occurred in patients (median age, 9 years; range, 1 to 24 years) with low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib once weekly (n = 137) in a clinical trial. The term viral infection includes rhinovirus infection, enterovirus infection, viral enterocolitis/gastroenteritis, oral herpes/herpes simplex virus, influenza, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection, coronavirus infection, COVID-19, SARS-COV-2 test positive, parainfluenza virus infection, adenovirus infection, viral conjunctivitis, viral eye infection, metapneumovirus infection, parvovirus infection, viral pharyngitis, viral rhinitis, and viral tonsillitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache was reported in 45% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients (median age, 9 years; range, 1 to 24 years) with low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib once weekly (n = 137) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, lymphocytosis, lymphopenia
    General Information
    Anemia/decreased hemoglobin level (90%; grade 3 or 4, 15%), lymphopenia/decreased lymphocyte count (50%; grade 3 or 4, 2%), leukopenia/decreased leukocyte count (31%; grade 3 or 4, 2%), and lymphocytosis/increased lymphocyte count (23%) that worsened from baseline were reported in patients (median age, 9 years; range, 1 to 24 years) with low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib once weekly (n = 137) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphocytosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Hyponatremia/decreased sodium level (20%; grade 3 or 4, 2%), hypophosphatemia/decreased phosphate level (87%; grade 3 or 4, 25%), and hypokalemia/decreased potassium level (51%; grade 3 or 4, 2%) that worsened from baseline were reported in patients (median age, 9 years; range, 1 to 24 years) with low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib once weekly (n = 137) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bleeding, epistaxis, GI bleeding, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, vaginal bleeding
    General Information
    In a pooled safety analysis, bleeding events, including major hemorrhage (i.e., symptomatic bleeding in a critical area or organ), occurred in 37% of 172 patients (pediatric patients with low-grade glioma, n = 140; adults with advanced solid tumors, n = 32) who received tovorafenib once weekly. Epistaxis (26%), intratumoral hemorrhage (9%), and serious bleeding events (5%) were reported in this analysis. Interruption of therapy, a dosage reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients who develop bleeding. Bleeding was reported in 42% (grade 3 or higher, 4%) of patients (median age, 9 years; range, 1 to 24 years) with low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib once weekly (n = 137) in a clinical trial; 1 patient died from a tumor hemorrhage. The term bleeding included tumor bleeding, GI bleeding, subdural hemorrhage/intracranial bleeding, epistaxis, vaginal bleeding, gingival bleeding, post procedural hemorrhage, hemoptysis, and anal hemorrhage.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hemoptysis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    growth inhibition
    General Information
    Growth inhibition (i.e., reductions in growth velocity) occurred in 46% (grade 3 or higher, 35%) of patients aged 18 years and younger with low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib once weekly in a clinical trial. Reduction in growth velocity resulted in treatment discontinuation in 3% of patients in the same population; the median change from baseline in height percentile was -14 (z-score change -0.6) for evaluable patients on study for 12 months and -20 (z-score change -0.9) for evaluable patients on study for 18 months. Growth velocity improved after interruption of treatment. The median annualized growth velocity among 81 evaluable patients ranged from 0.86 to 1.8 cm/year during the 2-year treatment period; of those, 17 patients had height measurements recorded at least 90 days off-treatment and had a 4.2 cm/year median annualized growth velocity. Following up to 24 months of tovorafenib therapy, patients in the same clinical trial had reduced Z-scores from baseline for height compared to age and sex-matched normative data. In 35 patients who experienced reductions in growth velocity and had hand radiographs taken to assess bone age, there was no evidence of premature closure of the epiphyseal growth plates or advancement of bone age.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      growth inhibition
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acneiform rash, bullous rash, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, xerosis
    General Information
    In a pooled safety analysis, rash (67%; grade 3, 12%), including acneiform rash/dermatitis (26%; grade 3, 0.6%) and photosensitivity (12%; grade 3, 0.6%), occurred in 172 patients (pediatric patients with low-grade glioma, n = 140; adults with advanced solid tumors, n = 32) who received tovorafenib once weekly. Rash (77%; grade 3 or 4, 12%), hair color changes (76 %), xerosis (36 %), acneiform rash/dermatitis (31%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), and pruritus (26%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) were reported in patients (median age, 9 years; range, 1 to 24 years) with low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib once weekly (n = 137) in a clinical trial. The term rash includes erythema multiforme, eczema, erythematous rash, follicular rash, maculopapular rash, pustular rash, skin exfoliation, and bullous rash/dermatitis. Skin discoloration was also reported in less than 20% of patients treated with tovorafenib in the same clinical trial. Consider a dermatologic consultation; administer supportive care as clinically indicated. Interruption of therapy, a dosage reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients who develop an intolerable or serious rash or photosensitivity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    In a pooled safety analysis, elevated hepatic enzymes, including AST (74%; grade 3, 2%) and ALT (42%; grade 3, 4%) levels, and hyperbilirubinemia/increased bilirubin level (23%; grade 3, 0.6%) occurred in 172 patients (pediatric patients with low-grade glioma, n = 140; adults with advanced solid tumors, n = 32) who received tovorafenib once weekly. The median time to onset of elevated hepatic enzymes was 14 (range, 3 to 280) days. Interruption of therapy, a dosage reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients who develop hepatotoxicity. Hepatic and metabolic laboratory abnormalities that worsened from baseline, including elevated hepatic enzymes such as increased AST (83%; grade 3 or 4, 2%) and ALT (50%; grade 3 or 4, 5%) levels, hyperbilirubinemia/increased bilirubin level (11%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), increased creatine phosphokinase level (83%; grade 3 or 4, 11%), increased lactate dehydrogenase level (73%), and hypoalbuminemia/decreased albumin level (24%; grade 3 or 4, 5%), were reported in patients (median age, 9 years; range, 1 to 24 years) with low-grade glioma who received tovorafenib once weekly (n = 137) in a clinical trial. Increased creatinine phosphokinase level that worsened from baseline was also reported with tovorafenib therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal data, tovorafenib may cause male and female infertility. The effects on male animal fertility were reversible. The effects on female animal fertility were not reversible.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, myalgia
    General Information
    Myalgia and arthralgia each occurred in less than 20% of patients treated with tovorafenib in the FIREFLY-1 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Tovorafenib is a type II RAF kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of relapsed or refractory low-grade glioma with a BRAF fusion or rearrangement or a BRAF V600 mutation in pediatric patients 6 months of age and older. Major bleeding events, skin toxicity, and hepatotoxicity have been reported with tovorafenib use. Tovorafenib was approved by the FDA in April 2024.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Tovorafenib is a RAF kinase inhibitor that exhibits a type II binding conformation. In vitro, tovorafenib has potent activity against CRAF (CRAFwild-type (WT) IC50, 94.2 nanomolar (nM); CRAFSSDD mutant IC50, 84.5 nM) and intermediate potency against BRAF (BRAFWT IC50, 633 nM; BRAFV600E IC50, 495 nM); however, tovorafenib is a poor inhibitor of the ARAF isoform (ARAFSSDD mutant IC50, more than 3,000 nM). Additionally, tovorafenib was found to be a potent inhibitor of KIAA1549:BRAF, a truncation/fusion variant of BRAF, in murine models of pediatric low-grade glioma (PLGA) and in human PLGA cells.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The tovorafenib steady-state Cmax and AUC values are 6.9 microgram (mcg)/mL (coefficient of variance (CV), 23%) and 508 mcg x hour/mL (CV, 31%), respectively. Following a single dose of tovorafenib tablets or oral suspension, the Tmax is 3 (range, 1.5 to 4) hours. Tovorafenib exposure increases in a dose-proportional manner with no clinically significant accumulation. Steady state is achieved in 12 days (CV, 33%).
Effects of Food: There are no clinically significant differences in tovorafenib Cmax and AUC values when tovorafenib tablets are administered with a high-fat meal (i.e., approximately 859 total calories with 54% of calories from fat) compared with fasting. The Tmax was delayed from 3 hours to 6.5 hours.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild hepatic impairment (bilirubin level at or below the ULN and AST level more than the ULN OR bilirubin level of more than 1 to 1.5 times the ULN and any AST level) does not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of tovorafenib. It has not been evaluated in patients with moderate (bilirubin level of more than 1.5 to 3 times the ULN and any AST level) or severe (bilirubin level of more than 3 times the ULN and any AST level) hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] of 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 or more, calculated by Schwartz or MDRD equations) does not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of tovorafenib. It has not been evaluated in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR of less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2).
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The Cmax and AUC values achieved in pediatric patients aged 11 months to 17 years were similar to values observed in adults following the same tovorafenib dose (using body surface area).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (range, 1 to 94 years) does not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of tovorafenib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex does not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of tovorafenib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (White, Black, or Asian patients) does not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of tovorafenib.
  Text
  Tovorafenib is administered orally. It is 97.5% bound to human plasma proteins in vitro. Tovorafenib has an apparent volume of distribution of 60 L/m2 (coefficient of variance (CV), 23%), a terminal half-life of approximately 56 hours (CV, 33%), and an apparent clearance of 0.7 L/hour/m2 (CV, 31%). In vitro, tovorafenib is metabolized by aldehyde oxidase and CYP2C8 (major) and by CYP3A, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 (minor). Following a single oral dose of radiolabeled tovorafenib, 65% and 27% of the total dose were recovered in the feces (8.6% unchanged) and urine (0.2% unchanged), respectively.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C8, CYP3A4Tovorafenib is a substrate of CYP2C8; it is also a weak CYP3A4 inducer. In vitro, tovorafenib inhibits CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A; it is a CYP3A, CYP2C8, CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 inducer and a breast cancer resistance protein inhibitor at clinically relevant concentrations.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Patient Counseling
Advise patients to use precautionary measures against ultraviolet exposure such as use of sunscreen, sunglasses, and/or protective clothing during treatment.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Swallow tovorafenib tablets whole with water; do not chew, cut, or crush tablets.
Do not use the tablets in patients with a body surface area of 1.12 m2 or less or in children not able to swallow tablets.
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Refer caregivers to the Instructions for Use provided with the medication on how to correctly prepare, measure, and administer the tovorafenib oral suspension.
Reconstitution:
Add 14 mL of room temperature water to the supplied tovorafenib oral suspension bottle for a final concentration of 25 mg/mL; it is expected that the foam formed after reconstitution reduces the deliverable volume.
For doses over 300 mg, reconstitute 2 bottles to achieve the dose; split the dose as equally as possible between the 2 bottles (e.g., 6 mL and 7 mL for a 325 mg dose). Prepare the first bottle and administer the dose prior to preparing the second bottle.
Administration:
Immediately after preparation, give the tovorafenib dose using the supplied oral dosing syringe or administer through a 12-French gauge or larger feeding tube.
Discard any oral suspension that is not administered within 15 minutes after preparation.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Give tovorafenib with or without food once weekly at a regularly scheduled time.
If a dose is missed by 3 days or less from the scheduled time, give it as soon as possible and then give the next dose at the regularly scheduled time.
If a dose is missed by more than 3 days from the scheduled time, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time.
If vomiting occurs immediately after a dose, repeat that dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    340 mg/m2 (Max dose, 600 mg) PO once weekly.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    340 mg/m2 (Max dose, 600 mg) PO once weekly.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Less than 6 months: Safety and efficacy not established.6 months or older: 340 mg/m2 PO once weekly.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (bilirubin level at or below the ULN and AST level more than the ULN OR bilirubin level of more than 1 to 1.5 times the ULN and any AST level): No initial dose adjustment is necessary.Moderate (bilirubin level of more than 1.5 to 3 times the ULN and any AST level) or severe (bilirubin level of more than 3 times the ULN and any AST level) hepatic impairment: Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments are not available; it appears that no initial dosage adjustments are needed.
Treatment-Related HepatotoxicityGrade 3 elevated AST, ALT, or bilirubin levels: Hold tovorafenib treatment. If the toxicity resolves to baseline or grade 2 or less within 8 days, resume therapy at the same dosage. If the toxicity resolves to baseline or grade 2 or less after 8 days, resume therapy at a reduced dosage.First occurrence of grade 4 toxicity: Hold tovorafenib treatment. Permanently discontinue tovorafenib or resume therapy at a reduced dosage when the toxicity resolves to grade 1 or less.Recurrent grade 4 toxicity: Permanently discontinue tovorafenib.
  Renal Impairment
  Mild or moderate renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] of 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 or more, calculated by Schwartz or MDRD equations): No initial dosage adjustment is necessary.Severe renal impairment (eGFR of less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2): Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments are not available; it appears that no initial dosage adjustments are needed.
