=== Maribavir (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5369)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Maribavir is a cytomegalovirus (CMV) pUL97 kinase inhibitor for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients (12 years of age and older and weighing at least 35 kg) with post-transplant CMV infection/disease that is refractory to treatment (with or without genotypic resistance) with ganciclovir...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 800 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dysgeusia, anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy No adequate human data are available to establish whether maribavir use during pregnancy poses a risk to pregnancy outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, embryo-fetal...

Brand Names
  - LIVTENCITY

Dosage Forms
  - LIVTENCITY 200mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        400 mg PO twice daily. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years weighing at least 35 kg
        Dosage Description
        400 mg PO twice daily. Dosing data are extrapolated from adult studies using population pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation; exposure is expected to be similar to adults. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of post-transplant cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection or disease that is refractory to treatment (with or without genotypic resistance) with ganciclovir, valganciclovir, cidofovir, or foscarnet

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    No adequate human data are available to establish whether maribavir use during pregnancy poses a risk to pregnancy outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, embryo-fetal survival was decreased in rats, but not in rabbits, at maribavir exposures less than those observed in humans at the recommended human dose (RHD).
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use maribavir with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of maribavir or its metabolites in human or animal milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    No adequate human data are available to establish whether maribavir use during pregnancy poses a risk to pregnancy outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, embryo-fetal survival was decreased in rats, but not in rabbits, at maribavir exposures less than those observed in humans at the recommended human dose (RHD).
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use maribavir with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of maribavir or its metabolites in human or animal milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. If maribavir is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with maribavir may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Maribavir is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with maribavir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of maribavir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If maribavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. If maribavir is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If maribavir is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of maribavir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of maribavir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. If maribavir is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If maribavir is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with maribavir due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and maribavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and maribavir due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with maribavir, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and apalutamide. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of maribavir by 60%.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of maribavir. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus maribavir may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with maribavir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of maribavir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. If maribavir is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If maribavir is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If maribavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and maribavir can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when maribavir is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping maribavir, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If maribavir is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and maribavir can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when maribavir is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping maribavir, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If maribavir is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with maribavir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of maribavir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with maribavir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of maribavir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Increase maribavir dose to 800 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with carbamazepine. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Additionally, monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely during coadministration as concomitant use may increase carbamazepine exposure; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor; carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of maribavir, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with maribavir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of maribavir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If maribavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and maribavir; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with maribavir and monitor for adverse reactions. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-glycoprotein substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with maribavir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of maribavir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with maribavir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of maribavir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with maribavir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of maribavir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with maribavir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of maribavir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with maribavir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of maribavir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with maribavir may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of maribavir could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If maribavir is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and maribavir due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing maribavir. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with maribavir increased the exposure of digoxin by approximately 20%.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with maribavir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of maribavir with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of maribavir with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with maribavir. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of maribavir. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of maribavir; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with maribavir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with maribavir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of eliglustat and maribavir is not recommended in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with maribavir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with maribavir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with maribavir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and encorafenib. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of maribavir by 60%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with maribavir due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and enzalutamide. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of maribavir by 60%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and maribavir should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. If maribavir is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If maribavir is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or maribavir; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors, including maribavir, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Increase maribavir dose to 1,200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with fosphenytoin. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ganciclovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and ganciclovir. Maribavir may antagonize the antiviral activity of ganciclovir by inhibiting human CMV pUL97 kinase, which is required for activation of ganciclovir.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and maribavir as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If maribavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If maribavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If maribavir is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with maribavir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of maribavir with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; maribavir may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with maribavir as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with maribavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with maribavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with maribavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and maribavir; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing maribavir. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of maribavir by 60%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of maribavir by 60%.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with maribavir. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with maribavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase mefloquine exposure and mefloquine-related adverse events. Mefloquine is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp; maribavir is a P-gp and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. If maribavir is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with maribavir can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. If maribavir is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A; maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with maribavir can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and maribavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and mitotane. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of maribavir by 60%.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with maribavir. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and maribavir. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A and maribavir is a dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with maribavir due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Increase maribavir dose to 800 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with rifabutin. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. If maribavir is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like maribavir can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If maribavir is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and maribavir due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit P-gp or BCRP.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Increase maribavir dose to 1,200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with phenobarbital. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Increase maribavir dose to 1,200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with phenobarbital. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Phenytoin: (Major) Increase maribavir dose to 1,200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with phenytoin. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and maribavir. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in posaconazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase posaconazole exposure. Posaconazole is a P-gp substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Primidone: (Major) Increase maribavir dose to 1,200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with primidone. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and maribavir due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with maribavir; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and maribavir with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral maribavir. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer maribavir at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of maribavir is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than seven days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral maribavir. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer maribavir at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of maribavir is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than seven days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with maribavir due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Rifabutin: (Major) Increase maribavir dose to 800 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with rifabutin. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and rifampin. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased the exposure of maribavir by 60%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and rifapentine. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of maribavir by 60%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with maribavir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and maribavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and maribavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in saquinavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase saquinavir exposure. Saquinavir is a P-gp substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and maribavir due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of maribavir. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and St. John's Wort. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of maribavir by 60%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if maribavir must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. If maribavir is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like maribavir can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If maribavir is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic range and maribavir is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with maribavir increased the exposure of tacrolimus by approximately 50%.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with maribavir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tipranavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tipranavir exposure. Tipranavir is a P-gp substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of maribavir with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; maribavir may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of maribavir, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of maribavir, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with maribavir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate; maribavir is a P-gp, BCRP, and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
valGANciclovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and valganciclovir. Maribavir may antagonize the antiviral activity of valganciclovir by inhibiting human CMV pUL97 kinase, which is required for activation of valganciclovir.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with maribavir due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of maribavir. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of maribavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of maribavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with maribavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    diarrhea, dysgeusia, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Taste disturbance, including ageusia, dysgeusia, hypogeusia, and taste disorder, was reported in 46% of patients during maribavir clinical trials. Taste disturbance resolved in 37% of patients while on therapy and in 89% of patients after drug discontinuation. Other gastrointestinal reactions reported include nausea (21%), diarrhea (19%), and vomiting (14%). Drug discontinuation occurred in 1% of patients in trials due to dysgeusia, diarrhea, or nausea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue was reported in 12% of patients during maribavir clinical trials. In patients with refractory CMV infections receiving maribavir, 33% of patients had a reported creatinine of more than 1.5 to 2.5 mg/dL and 7% of patients had a reported creatinine of more than 2.5 mg/dL.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    In patients with refractory CMV infections receiving maribavir, neutropenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia were reported. Decreased neutrophils occurred in 9% of patients with neutrophils reported as 750 to less than 1,000 cells/microL in 4% of patients, 500 to less than 750 cells/microL in 3% of patients, and less than 500 cells/microL in 2% of patients. Decreased hemoglobin occurred in 48% of patients with hemoglobin reported as 8 to less than 9.5 g/dL in 32% of patients, 6.5 to less than 8 g/dL in 15% of patients, and less than 6.5 g/dL in 1% of patients. Decreased platelets occurred in 35% of patients with platelets reported as 50,000 to less than 100,000 cells/microL in 18% of patients, 25,000 to less than 50,000 cells/microL in 12% of patients, and less than 25,000 cells/microL in 5% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Maribavir is a cytomegalovirus (CMV) pUL97 kinase inhibitor for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients (12 years of age and older and weighing at least 35 kg) with post-transplant CMV infection/disease that is refractory to treatment (with or without genotypic resistance) with ganciclovir, valganciclovir, cidofovir, or foscarnet. Virologic failure due to resistance can occur during and after treatment. Drug interactions may lead to reduced therapeutic effect due to loss of virologic response.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Maribavir is an antiviral drug against human cytomegalovirus (CMV). Pharmacological activity is due to the parent drug. The antiviral activity is mediated by competitive inhibition of the protein kinase activity of human CMV enzyme pUL97, which results in inhibition of the phosphorylation of proteins. Maribavir inhibited wild-type pUL97 protein kinase in a biochemical assay with an IC50 value of 0.003 microM. Maribavir and its 5'-mono- and 5'-triphosphate derivatives at 100 microM had no significant effect on the incorporation of deoxynucleoside triphosphates (dNTPs) by human CMV DNA polymerase. At a concentration of 100 microM, neither maribavir nor its 5'-triphosphate derivative inhibited CMV DNA polymerase delta; however, the 5'-monophosphate derivative inhibited incorporation by polymerase delta of all 4 natural dNTPs by approximately 55%.
 
Maribavir inhibits human CMV replication in virus yield reduction, DNA hybridization, and plaque reduction assays in human lung fibroblast cell line (MRC-5), human embryonic kidney (HEK), and human foreskin fibroblast (MRHF) cells. The EC50 values range from 0.03 to 2.2 microM depending on the cell line and assay endpoint. The cell culture antiviral activity of maribavir has also been evaluated against CMV clinical isolates. The median EC50 values were 0.1 microM and 0.28 microM using DNA hybridization and plaque reduction assays, respectively. No significant difference in EC50 values across 4 human CMV glycoprotein B genotypes (gB1,gB2,gB3, gB4) was seen.
 
In Trial 303 of adults with post-transplant CMV infection/disease that is refractory to ganciclovir, valganciclovir, cidofovir, or foscarnet, the primary endpoint response rates for maribavir across CMV subtypes gB1, gB2, gB3, gB4, and gB5 were 65% (n = 55/85), 39% (n = 22/57), 54% (n = 22/41), 67% (n = 14/21), and 64% (n = 7/11), respectively. For the investigator-assigned treatment (i.e., ganciclovir, valganciclovir, foscarnet, or cidofovir) the primary endpoint response rates across CMV subtypes gB1, gB2, gB3, gB4, and gB5 were 28% (n = 15/53), 27% (n = 4/15), 11% (n = 2/19), 20% (n = 2/10), and 17% (n = 1/6), respectively.
 
When maribavir was tested in combination with other antivirals, antagonism of antiviral activity was seen in combination with ganciclovir. No antagonism was observed with cidofovir, foscarnet, letermovir, and rapamycin at the drugs EC50 values. The pUL97 kinase activity inhibited by maribavir is necessary to activate valganciclovir and ganciclovir.
 
Selection of maribavir resistant virus in cell culture and genotypic plus phenotypic characterization of these has identified amino acid substitutions that confer reduced susceptibility to maribavir. Substitutions identified in pUL97 include L337M, V353A, L39TR, T409M, and H411L/N/Y. These confer reduction in susceptibility that range from 3.5-fold to more than 200-fold. Substitutions were also identified in pUL27 and include R233S, W362R, W153R, L193F, A269T, V353E, L426F, E22stop, W362stop, 281delC, and 301-311del. These confer reduction in susceptibility that range from 1.7- to 4.8-fold. In a Phase 2 study in 120 HSCT or solid organ transplant patients with phenotypic resistance to valganciclovir/ganciclovir, there were 25 patients with treatment-emergent maribavir resistance-associated substitution(s) in pUL97 F342Y (4.5-fold reduction in susceptibility), T409M (78-fold reduction), H411L/Y (69- and 12-fold reduction) and/or C480F (224-fold reduction). In a Phase 3 study in patients with phenotypic resistance to valganciclovir/ganciclovir, there were 58 patients with treatment-emergent pUL97 substitutions F342Y (4.5-fold reduction), T409M (78-fold reduction), H411L/N/Y (69-, 9-, and 12-fold reduction), and/or C480F (224-fold reduction). Of these patients, 47 patients were on-treatment failures and 11 patients relapsed.
 
Cross-resistance has been observed between maribavir and valganciclovir/ganciclovir in cell culture and clinical studies with pUL97 valganciclovir/ganciclovir resistance-associated substitutions. Substitutions of pUL54 DNA polymerase conferring resistance to valganciclovir/ganciclovir, cidofovir, or foscarnet remained susceptible to maribavir. Substitutions of pUL97 F342Y and C480F that are maribavir treatment-emergent resistance-associated substitutions confer a more than 1.5-fold reduced susceptibility to valganciclovir/ganciclovir, which is associated with phenotypic resistance to these agents. However, the clinical significance of this cross-resistance has not been determined. Maribavir resistant virus remained susceptible to cidofovir and foscarnet. Cross-resistance is not expected for these agents for pUL27 maribavir substitutions.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Plasma maribavir exposure (Cmax and AUC) increases in an approximate dose-proportional manner after a single oral dose of 50 to 1,600 mg (0.125- to 4-times the recommended dose) and multiple oral doses up to 2,400 mg per day (3-times the recommended daily dose). Maribavir pharmacokinetics are time-independent. The median Tmax is 1 to 3 hours. With twice-daily dosing, steady-state is reached within 2 days, with mean accumulation ratios of Cmax and AUC ranging from 1.37 to 1.47. The mean multiple-dose AUC0 to 12 hours is 142 mcg x hour/mL and the mean multiple dose Cmax is 20.1 mcg/mL. The concentration at the end of the dosing interval is 5.43 mcg/mL.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of maribavir in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A or B). Maribavir has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of maribavir in patients with mild to severe renal impairment (CrCl 12 to 70 mL/minute). Maribavir has not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), including patients on dialysis.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of maribavir in patients less than 18 years of age have not been evaluated. Using modeling and simulation, the recommended dosing regimen is expected to result in comparable steady-state plasma exposures of maribavir in patients 12 years of age and older and weighing at least 35 kg as observed in adults.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of maribavir in patients based on age (18 to 79 years). Pharmacokinetics of maribavir were consistent between elderly patients (65 years and older) and younger patients (less than 65 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of maribavir in patients based on gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of maribavir in patients based on race or ethnicity.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of maribavir in patients based on body weight (36 to 141 kg).
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Transplant type
There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of maribavir in patients based on type of transplantation.
  Text
  Maribavir is administered orally. Pharmacological activity is due to the parent drug. Protein binding is 98% across the concentration range of 0.05 to 200 mcg/mL. The blood-to-plasma ratio is 1.37 and the mean apparent steady-state volume of distribution is 24.9 L. Hepatic metabolism is the major route of elimination for maribavir. It is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 with CYP1A2 as a minor metabolic pathway. Multiple glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) enzymes (UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT2B7, and possibly UGT1A9) are involved in the glucuronidation of maribavir; however, the contribution of glucuronidation to the overall clearance of the drug is low based on in vitro data. The major circulating inactive metabolite is VP 44469 (N-dealkylated metabolite). The mean oral clearance (CL/F) in transplant patients is 2.67 L/hour with 61% of the dose excreted as unchanged drug in the urine and 14% excreted as unchanged drug in the feces. The mean half-life in transplant patients is 4.32 hours. In dose-ranging studies that evaluated doses of 400 mg twice daily and twice daily doses of 2- to 3-times the recommended dose, no exposure-response relationship was observed for viral load or probability of unquantifiable plasma cytomegalovirus (CMV) DNA. Increasing maribavir exposure was not associated with increased probability of confirmed plasma CMV DNA less than the lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) at Week 8 in a Phase 3 trial.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-gp, BCRP
Maribavir is a substrate of CYP3A4. Maribavir is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP).

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      The immediate-release tablets can be taken as whole, dispersed or crushed by mouth, or as dispersed tablets through a nasogastric (NG) or orogastric (OG) tube (French size 10 or larger). The suspension may be prepared ahead of time and stored at room temperature for up to 8 hours.
 
Administration of dispersed tablets or crushed tablets by mouth
Place the appropriate number of tablets for the prescribed dose into a suitable container. If desired, the tablets may be crushed. Add the appropriate volume of drinking water (other liquids have not been tested) to make a suspension.
400 mg doses (two 200 mg tablets): Add 30 mL of water
800 mg doses (four 200 mg tablets): Add 60 mL of water
1,200 mg doses (six 200 mg tablets): Add 90 mL of water
Swirl the container gently to keep the particles from settling, and administer the suspension before it settles.
The mixture will have a bitter taste.
Rinse the container with 15 mL of drinking water and administer the rinse water. Repeat this step again.
Visually confirm that no particles are left in the container. If particles remain, rinse the container with 15 mL of drinking water and administer the rinse water.
 
Administration of dispersed tablets through an NG or OG tube
Remove the cap (if applicable) and plunger out of a 50 or 60 mL catheter-tip compatible syringe or equivalent. Add 2 tablets into the syringe body and place the plunger back in the syringe. Only 2 tablets can be administered via NG or OG tube at a time.
Draw 30 mL of drinking water (other liquids have not been tested) into the syringe and hold the syringe with the tip pointing upward. Pull the plunger further to a higher volume position to have some airspace in the syringe. Place the cap back on the syringe (if applicable). Shake the syringe well (careful not to spill the contents) for about 30 to 45 seconds or until the tablets are completely dispersed.
Once the tablets are completely dispersed in the syringe, remove the cap from the syringe again (if applicable) and attach the syringe to the NG or OG tube and administer the dispersion before it settles.
Draw 15 mL of water using the same syringe and flush through the same NG or OG tube. Repeat this step and make sure no particles are left in the syringe by visual inspection. If particles remain, repeat this step again.
For doses of 800 mg (four 200 mg tablets) and 1,200 mg (six 200 mg tablets), repeat steps until prescribed dose is reached. The same syringe, NG or OG tube can be used.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Take with or without food.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    800 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    800 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    weighing 35 kg or more: 800 mg/day PO.
weighing less than 35 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years weighing 35 kg or more: 800 mg/day PO.
12 years weighing less than 35 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed for mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment. Administration in patients with severe hepatic impairment has not been studied.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed for mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment. Administration in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD), including patients on dialysis, has not been studied.
