=== Anthrax Immune Globulin — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3991)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV) is a sterile intravenous solution composed of human polyclonal immune globulin G antibodies isolated from the plasma of healthy donors who were previously vaccinated against anthrax.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 14 vials (840 units)/dose IV.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): back pain, chest pain (unspecified), flushing, glycosuria, headache, injection site reaction, sinus tachycardia, ascites, cardiac arrest, coagulopathy, edema, hyperkalemia, hypotension, metabolic acidosis, peripheral edema, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, cough, erythema, laryngeal edema, pruritus, urticaria, wheezing, chills, fever, infusion-related reactions, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards), hypoxia, pleural effusion

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Anthrax immune globulin is contraindicated for use in individuals with IgA deficiency with antibodies against IgA, as it contains trace amounts of IgA. It is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use of anthrax immune globulin or...

ANTHRAX IMMUNE GLOBULIN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Anthrasil

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of systemic or inhalational anthrax in combination with appropriate antibiotics or cutaneous anthrax† when unable to treat with antibiotics

Continuous Intravenous Infusion dosage
Adults


7 or 14 vials (420 or 840 units) continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.5 mL/minute, initially; select dose based on clinical severity. Increase infusion rate by 1 mL/minute every 30 minutes as tolerated (Max: 2 mL/minute). Depending on severity of symptoms and the response to treatment, some patients may require repeat dosing.


Adolescents 17 years


7 or 14 vials (420 or 840 units) continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.5 mL/minute, initially; select dose based on clinical severity. Increase infusion rate by 1 mL/minute every 30 minutes as tolerated (Max: 2 mL/minute). Depending on severity of symptoms and the response to treatment, some patients may require repeat dosing.


Children and Adolescents 1 to 16 years and weighing 60 kg or more


7 or 14 vials (420 or 840 units) continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.01 mL/kg/minute, initially; select dose based on clinical severity. Increase infusion rate by 0.02 mL/kg/minute every 30 minutes as tolerated (Max: 0.04 mL/kg/minute up to 2 mL/minute). Depending on severity of symptoms and the response to treatment, some patients may require repeat dosing.


Children and Adolescents 1 to 16 years and weighing 50 kg to 59 kg


6 or 12 vials (360 or 720 units) continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.01 mL/kg/minute, initially; select dose based on clinical severity. Increase infusion rate by 0.02 mL/kg/minute every 30 minutes as tolerated (Max: 0.04 mL/kg/minute up to 2 mL/minute). Depending on severity of symptoms and the response to treatment, some patients may require repeat dosing.


Children and Adolescents 1 to 16 years and weighing 35 kg to 49 kg


5 or 10 vials (300 or 600 units) continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.01 mL/kg/minute, initially; select dose based on clinical severity. Increase infusion rate by 0.02 mL/kg/minute every 30 minutes as tolerated (Max: 0.04 mL/kg/minute). Depending on severity of symptoms and the response to treatment, some patients may require repeat dosing.


Children weighing 25 kg to 34 kg


4 or 8 vials (240 or 480 units) continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.01 mL/kg/minute, initially; select dose based on clinical severity. Increase infusion rate by 0.02 mL/kg/minute every 30 minutes as tolerated (Max: 0.04 mL/kg/minute). Depending on severity of symptoms and the response to treatment, some patients may require repeat dosing.


Children weighing 18 kg to 24 kg


3 or 6 vials (180 or 360 units) continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.01 mL/kg/minute, initially; select dose based on clinical severity. Increase infusion rate by 0.02 mL/kg/minute every 30 minutes as tolerated (Max: 0.04 mL/kg/minute). Depending on severity of symptoms and the response to treatment, some patients may require repeat dosing.


Infants and Children weighing 10 kg to 17 kg


2 or 4 vials (120 or 240 units) continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.01 mL/kg/minute, initially; select dose based on clinical severity. Increase infusion rate by 0.02 mL/kg/minute every 30 minutes as tolerated (Max: 0.04 mL/kg/minute). Depending on severity of symptoms and the response to treatment, some patients may require repeat dosing.


Infants and Children weighing 6 kg to 9 kg


1 or 2 vials (60 or 120 units) continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.01 mL/kg/minute, initially; select dose based on clinical severity. Increase infusion rate by 0.02 mL/kg/minute every 30 minutes as tolerated (Max: 0.04 mL/kg/minute). Depending on severity of symptoms and the response to treatment, some patients may require repeat dosing.


Infants weighing 5 kg or less


1 vial (60 units) continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.01 mL/kg/minute, initially; select dose based on clinical severity. Increase infusion rate by 0.02 mL/kg/minute every 30 minutes as tolerated (Max: 0.04 mL/kg/minute). Depending on severity of symptoms and the response to treatment, some patients may require repeat dosing.


Neonates


1 vial (60 units) continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.01 mL/kg/minute, initially; select dose based on clinical severity. Increase infusion rate by 0.02 mL/kg/minute every 30 minutes as tolerated (Max: 0.04 mL/kg/minute). Depending on severity of symptoms and the response to treatment, some patients may require repeat dosing.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use, IgA deficiency with antibodies against IgA


Anthrax immune globulin is contraindicated for use in individuals with IgA deficiency with antibodies against IgA, as it contains trace amounts of IgA. It is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use of anthrax immune globulin or other human immune globulin preparations.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

laboratory test interference


Laboratory test interference may occur with anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV). Blood glucose testing systems that use glucose dehydrogenase pyrroloquinolinequinone (GDH-PQQ) or glucose-dye-oxidoreductase methods may falsely interpret the maltose contained in AIGIV as glucose. These falsely elevated glucose readings (false hyperglycemia) have led to inappropriate administration of insulin, resulting in life-threatening hypoglycemia, and may also mask true hypoglycemia. To avoid such interference, measure blood glucose using a glucose-specific method. Consult the product information for the blood glucose testing system and test strips to confirm compatibility with maltose-containing parenteral products. If any uncertainty exists, contact the manufacturer of the testing system.


cardiovascular disease, central venous catheter, chylomicronemia, cryoglobulinemia, geriatric, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperviscosity, immobility, monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, thromboembolism, thrombophilia


Thrombosis may occur after treatment with immune globulin products. Risk factors for thromboembolism may include advanced age (geriatric adults), prolonged immobility, hypercoagulable conditions (thrombophilia), history of venous or arterial thrombosis, use of estrogens, indwelling central venous catheter, hyperviscosity, and cardiovascular disease or risk factors. Thrombosis may also occur without known risk factors. In patients at risk for thrombosis, ensure adequate hydration prior to administration, administer anthrax immune globulin at the lowest practical dose and infusion rate, and monitor for signs and symptoms of thrombosis. Consider a baseline blood viscosity assessment in patients at risk for hyperviscosity, such as those with cryoglobulinemia, fasting chylomicronemia or hypertriglyceridemia, or monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (paraproteinemia).


diabetes mellitus, hypovolemia, renal failure, renal impairment, sepsis


Administer anthrax immune globulin at the lowest practical infusion rate in patients at increased risk of renal injury, such as those with renal impairment or renal failure, diabetes mellitus, age older than 65 years, hypovolemia, sepsis, paraproteinemia, or those receiving nephrotoxic medications, and ensure adequate hydration prior to administration. Acute renal failure, acute tubular nephrosis, proximal tubular nephropathy, osmotic nephrosis, and death may occur with the use of human immune globulin products. Assess renal function, including blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine, and urine output, prior to the initial infusion and periodically during therapy. If renal function deteriorates, consider discontinuing treatment.


blood group phenotype A, blood group phenotype AB, blood group phenotype B, inflammation


Monitor patients receiving anthrax immune globulin for clinical signs and symptoms of hemolysis, particularly those at increased risk, such as individuals with non-O blood types (blood group phenotype A, blood group phenotype B, blood group phenotype AB) or those receiving high doses (2 g/kg or more). Although the contribution of underlying inflammation to hemolysis risk is not fully understood, it may be a contributing factor. Consider appropriate laboratory testing in higher risk patients, including measurement of hemoglobin or hematocrit prior to infusion and within approximately 36 to 96 hours post infusion. If signs and/or symptoms of hemolysis are present after anthrax immune globulin infusion, perform appropriate confirmatory laboratory testing. Immune globulin products may contain blood group antibodies that act as hemolysins and induce in vivo coating of red blood cells (RBCs) with immunoglobulin, causing a positive direct antiglobulin test (DAT, Coombs' test). Delayed hemolytic anemia secondary to immune globulin can develop due to enhanced red blood cell sequestration, and acute hemolysis consistent with intravascular hemolysis has been reported.


pregnancy


Data are not available regarding use of anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV) during pregnancy. Neither human nor animal studies have been conducted, and the potential risk to the fetus is unknown. In general, immunoglobulins cross the placenta from maternal circulation increasingly after 30 weeks of gestation. According to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), fetal adverse events have not occurred following administration of immune globulin preparations to pregnant individuals. Administer during pregnancy only if clearly needed.


breast-feeding


Use anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV) with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data to assess the presence of AIGIV in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Case reports of 2 nursing breast-feeding individuals receiving intravenous immune globulin therapy suggest transfer of IgG and IgM into the colostrum and breast milk.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Data are not available regarding use of anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV) during pregnancy. Neither human nor animal studies have been conducted, and the potential risk to the fetus is unknown. In general, immunoglobulins cross the placenta from maternal circulation increasingly after 30 weeks of gestation. According to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), fetal adverse events have not occurred following administration of immune globulin preparations to pregnant individuals. Administer during pregnancy only if clearly needed.


Interactions

Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.


Adverse Reaction
back pain, chest pain (unspecified), flushing, glycosuria, headache, injection site reaction, nausea, sinus tachycardia


Safety of anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV) was assessed during a small placebo-controlled study, in which 54 healthy adults were administered AIGIV doses of 210, 420, and 840 units. The most commonly reported adverse events included headache (20%), nausea (9%), injection site reaction (pain, 9%; swelling, 7%), and back pain (4%). Of note, headache and back pain appeared to be dose-related adverse events, with 7% of patients receiving 840 units of AIGIV experiencing back pain. Another dose-related adverse events observed during the study was transient glycosuria. No serious adverse events were reported in any drug or placebo recipient; however, AIGIV infusion was discontinued in 4 subjects due to adverse events. One subject withdrew due to chest pain (unspecified), flushing, sinus tachycardia, and throat tightness.


ascites, cardiac arrest, coagulopathy, edema, hyperkalemia, hypotension, metabolic acidosis, peripheral edema


At the time of FDA approval, anthrax immune globulin had been administered through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) expanded access use to 19 adult patients with severe systemic anthrax. Eight of the 19 patients (42%) experienced at least 1 serious adverse reaction that began within 72 hours of the infusion. These adverse events included: edema, peripheral edema, renal insufficiency or failure (n = 4), coagulopathy, cardiac arrest (n = 2), hypotension, ascites, metabolic acidosis, and hyperkalemia.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, cough, erythema, laryngeal edema, pruritus, urticaria, wheezing


Hypersensitivity or anaphylactoid reactions, including angioedema, bronchospasm with wheezing or cough, erythema, hypotension, laryngeal edema, pruritus, tachycardia, and urticaria, may occur with anthrax immune globulin. Monitor all patients for allergic reactions during and after the infusion. Discontinue the administration of anthrax immune globulin immediately and administer appropriate emergency care if severe hypersensitivity reactions occur.


chills, fever, infusion-related reactions, vomiting


Infusion-related reactions (such as chills, fever, headache, nausea, and vomiting) may be associated with administration of anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV).


acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), hypoxia, pleural effusion, pulmonary edema, pulmonary toxicity


Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) (n = 2), pulmonary edema, and pleural effusion have been reported in adult patients (n = 19) who received anthrax immune globulin through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) expanded access use. Transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI) is a life-threatening and potentially fatal complication of blood product administration, and may occur with anthrax immune globulin administration. TRALI is characterized by severe respiratory distress, hypoxemia (hypoxia), fever, normal left ventricular function, and severe non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema. Symptoms typically begin 1 to 2 hours after administration and manifest fully within 1 to 6 hours. The clinical presentation may be subtle or significant. Radiographs show bilateral pulmonary infiltrates without evidence of cardiac compromise or fluid overload. Respiratory support may be necessary. Diuretics are not effective in TRALI as the cause involves microvascular injury, rather than fluid overload. The etiology of TRALI may be attributable to the presence of anti-HLA antibodies and/or anti-granulocyte antibodies in the plasma of multiparous females or donors who have received previous transfusions who serve as donors for the plasma-derived product. Monitor recipients of anthrax immune globulin for pulmonary toxicity. If TRALI is suspected, both the product and the patient need to be tested for the presence of anti-neutrophil and anti-HLA antibodies.


nephropathy, osmotic nephrosis, renal failure (unspecified), renal tubular necrosis


Renal dysfunction, renal failure (unspecified), renal tubular necrosis, proximal tubular nephropathy, osmotic nephrosis, and death may occur with use of anthrax immune globulin. Acute renal failure or insufficiency (n = 4) was reported in adult patients (n = 19) who received anthrax immune globulin through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) expanded access use. Ensure patients are adequately hydrated prior to initiating the infusion. For patients at increased risk, administer anthrax immune globulin at the minimum infusion rate possible. Assess renal function, including measurement of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine, before the initial infusion and again at appropriate intervals thereafter. Periodic monitoring of renal function tests and urine output is particularly important in patients judged to have a potential increased risk for developing acute renal failure. If renal function deteriorates, consider treatment discontinuation.


thrombosis


Thrombosis may occur with immune globulin products, including anthrax immune globulin. For patients at risk of thrombosis, administer anthrax immune globulin at the minimum dose and infusion rate practicable. Ensure adequate hydration in all patients before administration, and monitor for signs and symptoms of thrombosis.


aseptic meningitis, drowsiness, photophobia


Aseptic meningitis syndrome (AMS) may be associated with administration of anthrax immune globulin. Patients with AMS have experienced symptoms that include severe headaches, nuchal rigidity, drowsiness, fever, photophobia, painful eye movements, nausea, and vomiting. The adverse reactions begin within several hours to 2 days after treatment with high total immune globulin doses (more than 2 g/kg). Patients presenting with signs and symptoms should undergo a thorough neurological evaluation, including cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) studies; the CSF is often positive for pleocytosis and elevated protein levels, with negative culture results. Discontinuation of treatment may result in remission of AMS within several days without sequelae.


hemolysis, hemolytic anemia


Antibodies present in anthrax immune globulin may act as hemolysins and induce immunoglobulin adherence to red blood cells, causing a positive direct antiglobulin test (DAT, Coombs' test) and hemolysis. Acute hemolysis consistent with intravascular hemolysis and severe hemolysis-related renal dysfunction or failure have been reported with immune globulin therapy. In addition, delayed hemolytic anemia can develop after AIGIV therapy due to enhanced red blood cell sequestration. Monitor patients for hemolysis and hemolytic anemia. In high-risk patients, consider appropriate lab testing, including hemoglobin and hematocrit prior to therapy and after the infusion. If signs and symptoms of hemolysis are present after the infusion, perform confirmatory lab testing.


hypoglycemia, laboratory test interference


Laboratory test interference may occur with anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV). Blood glucose testing systems that use glucose dehydrogenase pyrroloquinolinequinone (GDH-PQQ) or glucose-dye-oxidoreductase methods may falsely interpret the maltose contained in AIGIV as glucose. These falsely elevated glucose readings (false hyperglycemia) have led to inappropriate administration of insulin, resulting in life-threatening hypoglycemia, and may also mask true hypoglycemia. To avoid such interference, measure blood glucose using a glucose-specific method. Consult the product information for the blood glucose testing system and test strips to confirm compatibility with maltose-containing parenteral products. If any uncertainty exists, contact the manufacturer of the testing system.


infection


As with other products derived from or purified with human blood components, the possibility of transmitting a viral or bacterial infection exists in patients receiving anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV); however, the risk has been reduced by screening plasma donors for prior exposure to certain viruses, testing for the presence of viruses, and inactivating or reducing viruses. Although the manufacturing processes are designed to reduce the risk of transmitting viral infection, no process is 100% effective. There is also the possibility that unknown infectious agents may be present in this product. To data, no cases of viral transmission have been associated with the use of AIGIV. Health care providers are encouraged to report any infection thought to have been possibly transmitted by AIGIV to the manufacturer by telephoning 800-768-2304.


Description

Anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV) is a sterile intravenous solution composed of human polyclonal immune globulin G antibodies isolated from the plasma of healthy donors who were previously vaccinated against anthrax. The drug is indicated to treat patients infected with inhalational anthrax; however, because AIGIV does not have antibacterial activity, it must be administered in combination with appropriate antibiotics. Approval of AIGIV was based on data extrapolated from animal studies involving New Zealand white rabbits and cynomolgus macaques, as well as safety and pharmacokinetic data from healthy volunteers. In the animal studies, administration of AIGIV, as monotherapy and in combination with levofloxacin, resulted in statistically significant increases in survival rates and decreases in toxemia (defined as a serum samples with detectable protective antigen). At the time of FDA approval, AIGIV had been administered to 19 human adults under the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) expanded access use. Of these 19 patients, 3 were infected with inhalational anthrax, 15 with injectable anthrax, and 1 with gastrointestinal anthrax. Treatment outcomes were as follows: inhalational anthrax (2 survived, 1 died), injectable anthrax (10 survived, 5 died), gastrointestinal anthrax (1 survived). Anthrax immune globulin was FDA-approved with an Orphan Drug designation in March 2015.

Mechanism Of Action

Anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV) is as sterile solution containing polyclonal antibodies composed primarily of IgG molecules with trace amounts of IgA. AIGIV is prepared using purified plasma collected from healthy human donors who were immunized with the anthrax vaccine. The anthrax vaccine simulates B lymphocytes to produce antibodies with a high anti-anthrax titer.
 
Anthrax is an infectious disease caused by Bacillus anthracis. Similar to some Clostridium spp. (i.e., C. botulinum, C. tetani, C. difficile, C perfringens), B. anthracis is a toxin producing bacteria; the 2 anthrax toxins are edema toxin and lethal toxin. There are 3 proteins that make up these 2 toxins: protective antigen (PA), lethal factor (LF), and edema factor (EF). Separately, these proteins are not cytotoxic; however, when PA binds with EF the edema toxin is produced, and when PA binds with LF the lethal toxin is produced.
 
AIGIV provides passive immunity by neutralizing the anthrax toxin. This occurs when IgG binds to the PA component of the lethal toxin and edema toxin. Each vial of AIGIV contains a minimum 60 units of toxin neutralizing activity. AIGIV provides no direct antibacterial activity; therefore, it must be used in conjunction with appropriate antibiotic therapy.

Pharmacokinetics

Anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV) is administered via intravenous infusion.
 
To evaluate the pharmacokinetic parameters of AIGIV, toxin neutralization activity (TNA) levels were measured in health adults receiving AIGIV doses of 210 units (n = 15), 420 units (n = 17), and 840 units (n = 16). For all three doses, peak toxin neutralization activity (TNA) were observed immediately following the infusions and consistently declined throughout the 84 days study period; TNA activity remained above the lower limits of quantitation for all three study doses. Although the maximum TNA concentration (Cmax) and systemic TNA exposure (AUC) increased in a dose-proportional manner, the serum elimination half-life was 24 to 28 days regardless of dose. In comparison to the health volunteers, patients with inhalational anthrax are expected to have lower TNA systemic exposures and greater initial clearance of anti-PA antibodies; these differences would result from immune globulin binding to the PA antigen.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Gender Differences

Gender related differences in the pharmacokinetic parameters of anthrax immune globulin (AIGIV) were not observed among healthy study subjects.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. The solution is clear to slightly opalescent and does not contain particulates. Discard if the solution appears cloudy, turbid, or if particulates are present.


Intravenous Administration


Two methods are recommended for thawing the frozen vials. For immediate use, thaw vials by placing at room temperature for 1 hour, followed by submersion in a water bath at 37 degrees C (98.6 degrees F) until thawed. Alternatively, vials may be placed in refrigerator at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F) until thawed (approximately 14 hours). DO NOT use a microwave. Once thawed, do not refreeze the vials.
After the vials have thawed, allow the product to come to room temperature.
Gently swirl upright vials to ensure uniformity. DO NOT shake the vials as this may cause foaming.
The vials are single use only and do not contain a preservative; therefore, administration should occur as soon as possible after the vials have been punctured.
Aseptically, withdrawal vial contents into a syringe, and transfer into an appropriately sized and label infusion bag. Use of an in-line filter is optional.
For patients 17 years and older: Initial IV infusion rate is 0.5 mL/min for 30 minutes. If no adverse reactions occur, the rate may be incrementally increased every 30 minutes to a maximum of 2 mL/min.
For pediatric patients younger than 17 years: Initial IV infusion rate is 0.01 mL/kg/min for 30 minutes. If no adverse reactions occur, the rate may be incrementally increased every 30 minutes to a maximum of 0.04 mL/kg/min. Do not exceed the recommended adult rate.
For patients at risk for renal dysfunction or thrombotic events: Ensure proper hydration and administer at the minimum infusion rate practicable. Consider discontinuation if renal function deteriorates.
Monitor for adverse reactions throughout and immediately following the infusion. Slow or stop infusion if patient develops flushing, headache, nausea, or changes in pulse or blood pressure.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

14 vials (840 units)/dose IV.

Geriatric

14 vials (840 units)/dose IV.

Adolescents

17 years: 14 vials (840 units)/dose IV.
13 to 16 years weighing 60 kg or more: 14 vials (840 units)/dose IV.
13 to 16 years weighing 50 to 59 kg: 12 vials (720 units)/dose IV.
13 to 16 years weighing 35 to 49 kg: 10 vials (600 units)/dose IV.
13 to 16 years weighing 25 to 34 kg: 8 vials (480 units)/dose IV.

Children

weighing 60 kg or more: 14 vials (840 units)/dose IV.
weighing 50 to 59 kg: 12 vials (720 units)/dose IV.
weighing 35 to 49 kg: 10 vials (600 units)/dose IV.
weighing 25 to 34 kg: 8 vials (480 units)/dose IV.
weighing 18 to 24 kg: 6 vials (360 units)/dose IV.
weighing 10 to 17 kg: 4 vials (240 units)/dose IV.
weighing 6 to 9 kg: 2 vials (120 units)/dose IV.

Infants

weighing 10 to 17 kg: 4 vials (240 units)/dose IV.
weighing 6 to 9 kg: 2 vials (120 units)/dose IV.
weighing 5 kg or less: 1 vial (60 units)/dose IV.

Neonates

1 vial (60 units)/dose IV.

Dosage Forms

Anthrasil Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed; however, reduced infusion rates are recommended for patients with any degree of pre-existing renal insufficiency.

© 2026 Elsevier