=== Amifampridine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5120)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Amifampridine is an oral aminopyridine potassium channel blocker used for the treatment of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg/dose and 100 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, depression, dizziness, dysesthesia, headache, hypoesthesia, insomnia, paresthesias, cystitis, infection, influenza, gastroesophageal reflux, weight loss, arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, myasthenia, weakness, anemia, asthenia, dyspnea, erythema, fever, hypercholesterolemia, lymphadenopathy, peripheral edema

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Amifampridine is contraindicated in patients with aminopyridine hypersensitivity.

AMIFAMPRIDINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

FIRDAPSE, Ruzurgi

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of Lambert-Eaton syndrome

Oral dosage (Firdapse)
Adults


15 to 30 mg/day PO initially, given in 3 to 5 divided doses. In poor metabolizers of N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2), initiate treatment at 15 mg/day. Increase dose by 5 mg/day every 3 or 4 days, based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 100 mg/day; do not exceed 20 mg/dose.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing 45 kg or more


15 to 30 mg/day PO initially, given in 3 to 5 divided doses. In poor metabolizers of N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2), initiate treatment at 15 mg/day. Increase dose by 5 mg/day every 3 or 4 days, based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 100 mg/day; do not exceed 20 mg/dose.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing less than 45 kg


5 to 15 mg/day PO initially, given in 3 to 5 divided doses. In poor metabolizers of N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2), initiate treatment at 5 mg/day. Increase dose by 2.5 mg/day every 3 or 4 days, based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 50 mg/day; do not exceed 10 mg/dose.


Oral dosage (Ruzurgi)
Children and Adolescents 6 to 16 years weighing 45 kg or more


15 to 30 mg/day PO initially, given in 2 to 3 divided doses. In poor metabolizers of N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2), initiate treatment at 15 mg/day. Increase the dose by 5 to 10 mg/day, divided in up to 5 doses per day, based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 100 mg/day; do not exceed 30 mg/dose.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 16 years weighing less than 45 kg


7.5 to 15 mg/day PO initially, given in 2 to 3 divided doses. In poor metabolizers of N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2), initiate treatment at 7.5 mg/day. Increase the dose by 2.5 to 5 mg/day, divided in up to 5 doses per day, based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 50 mg/day; do not exceed 15 mg/dose.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Amifampridine is contraindicated in patients with aminopyridine hypersensitivity. Hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis have not been reported with amifampridine; however, anaphylaxis and angioedema has been reported with another aminopyridine (e.g., dalfampridine). If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, discontinue the drug and institute appropriate treatment.

renal failure, renal impairment


Renal clearance is an elimination pathway for amifampridine and its inactive metabolite, and exposure of amifampridine is higher in subjects with renal impairment. Initiate amifampridine at the lowest recommended starting dosage in patients with renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 90 mL/minute) and monitor for adverse reactions. Consider dosage modification or discontinuation of amifampridine in patients with renal impairment based on clinical effect and tolerability. Amifampridine has not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease (renal failure; CrCl less than 15 mL/minute or those on dialysis); no dosage recommendations are available for these patients.


seizures


Amifampridine is contraindicated in individuals with a history of seizures. Seizures have been observed in individuals with and without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at the recommended doses at various times during treatment. Many individuals had comorbid conditions or were taking concomitant medications that may have lowered the seizure threshold. Seizures may be dose-dependent. Consider discontinuation or dose reduction of amifampridine in individuals who have a seizure while on treatment.


pregnancy


Data is insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk with the use of amifampridine during pregnancy. Administration of amifampridine phosphate (7.5, 22.5, or 75 mg/kg/day) to rats during pregnancy and lactation resulted in an increase in stillbirths and pup death, reduced pup weight, and delayed sexual development. The no-effect dose for adverse developmental effects (7.5 mg/kg/day) is less than amifampridine exposure (AUC) in humans at the maximum recommended human dose. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to amifampridine; information about the registry can be obtained at www.firdapsepregnancystudy.com or by calling 1-855-212-5856.


NAT2 slow acetylator


Exposure of amifampridine is increased in individuals who are N-acetyltransferase gene 2 (NAT2) poor metabolizers (those with slow acetylation). Initiate therapy at the lowest recommended starting dosage in these individuals and monitor for adverse reactions. Consider dosage modification for individuals who are known to be a NAT2 slow acetylator based on clinical effect and tolerability.


breast-feeding


Use amifampridine with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of amifampridine in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for amifampridine, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition. Amifampridine was excreted in milk in animal studies and reached concentrations similar to those in maternal plasma; however, due to species-specific differences in lactation physiology, animal data may not reliably predict drug concentrations in human milk.


hepatic failure


Amifampridine is extensively metabolized by N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) and hepatic disease may cause an increase in drug exposure. Initiate treatment in people with any degree of hepatic failure at the lowest recommended starting dosage and monitor for adverse reactions. Consider dosage modification or drug discontinuation based on clinical effect and tolerability.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Data is insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk with the use of amifampridine during pregnancy. Administration of amifampridine phosphate (7.5, 22.5, or 75 mg/kg/day) to rats during pregnancy and lactation resulted in an increase in stillbirths and pup death, reduced pup weight, and delayed sexual development. The no-effect dose for adverse developmental effects (7.5 mg/kg/day) is less than amifampridine exposure (AUC) in humans at the maximum recommended human dose. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to amifampridine; information about the registry can be obtained at www.firdapsepregnancystudy.com or by calling 1-855-212-5856.


Interactions

Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with tricyclic antidepressants and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the risk of seizures.
Amphetamine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with amphetamines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Amphetamines may increase the risk of seizures.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with amphetamines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Amphetamines may increase the risk of seizures.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with amphetamines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Amphetamines may increase the risk of seizures.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
Asenapine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
atypical antipsychotic: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) Coaministration of amifampridine and galantamine may increase the risk for adverse reactions due to additive cholinergic effects. Monitor patients closely for new or worsening side effects such as headache, visual disturbances, watery eyes, excessive sweating, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, loss of bladder control, confusion, or tremors.
Benzphetamine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with benzphetamine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Benzphetamine may increase the risk of seizures.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
buPROPion: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with bupropion and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider alternatives to bupropion. If use together is medically necessary, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Bupropion is known to have a dose-dependent risk for seizures.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with bupropion and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider alternatives to bupropion. If use together is medically necessary, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Bupropion is known to have a dose-dependent risk for seizures.
Cariprazine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Carefully consider concomitant use of amifampridine with tramadol due to increased seizure risk. The concomitant use of amifampridine and other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as tramadol, may lead to an increased risk of seizures.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with tricyclic antidepressants and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the risk of seizures.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with tricyclic antidepressants and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the risk of seizures.
cloZAPine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with cyclobenzaprine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Cyclobenzaprine may increase the risk of seizures.
Dalfampridine: (Major) Avoid use of dalfampridine and amifampridine together, due to duplicative effects and an increased risk for serious side effects, such as seizures. Both drugs are aminopyridine class potassium channel blockers. Both drugs increase the seizure risk.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Desipramine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with tricyclic antidepressants and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the risk of seizures.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with methylphenidate derivatives and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Methylphenidate derivatives may increase the risk of seizures.
Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with amphetamines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Amphetamines may increase the risk of seizures.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with bupropion and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider alternatives to bupropion. If use together is medically necessary, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Bupropion is known to have a dose-dependent risk for seizures.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with diethylpropion and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Diethylpropion may increase the risk of seizures.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Coaministration of amifampridine and donepezil may increase the risk for adverse reactions due to additive cholinergic effects. Monitor patients closely for new or worsening side effects such as headache, visual disturbances, watery eyes, excessive sweating, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, loss of bladder control, confusion, or tremors.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Coaministration of amifampridine and donepezil may increase the risk for adverse reactions due to additive cholinergic effects. Monitor patients closely for new or worsening side effects such as headache, visual disturbances, watery eyes, excessive sweating, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, loss of bladder control, confusion, or tremors.
Doxepin: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with tricyclic antidepressants and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the risk of seizures.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Galantamine: (Moderate) Coaministration of amifampridine and galantamine may increase the risk for adverse reactions due to additive cholinergic effects. Monitor patients closely for new or worsening side effects such as headache, visual disturbances, watery eyes, excessive sweating, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, loss of bladder control, confusion, or tremors.
Haloperidol: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with haloperidol and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Haloperidol may increase the risk of seizures.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Iloperidone: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
Imipramine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with tricyclic antidepressants and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the risk of seizures.
Isocarboxazid: (Major) The concomitant use of amifampridine and drugs that lower seizure threshold may lead to an increased risk of seizures; carefully consider the risks versus benefits of combined use. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are associated with a risk for seizures in susceptible patients. Because the effect of MAOIs on the convulsive threshold may be variable, adequate precautions should be taken.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with lisdexamfetamine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Lisdexamfetamine may increase the risk of seizures.
Loxapine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with loxapine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Loxapine may increase the risk of seizures.
Lumateperone: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
Lurasidone: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
Methamphetamine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with methamphetamine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Methamphetamine may increase the risk of seizures.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with methylphenidate derivatives and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Methylphenidate derivatives may increase the risk of seizures.
Methylphenidate: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with methylphenidate derivatives and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Methylphenidate derivatives may increase the risk of seizures.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Molindone: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with molindone and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Molindone may increase the risk of seizures.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Major) The concomitant use of amifampridine and drugs that lower seizure threshold may lead to an increased risk of seizures; carefully consider the risks versus benefits of combined use. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are associated with a risk for seizures in susceptible patients. Because the effect of MAOIs on the convulsive threshold may be variable, adequate precautions should be taken.
Neostigmine: (Moderate) Coaministration of amifampridine and neostigmine may increase the risk for adverse reactions due to additive cholinergic effects. Monitor patients closely for new or worsening side effects such as headache, visual disturbances, watery eyes, excessive sweating, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, loss of bladder control, confusion, or tremors.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Coaministration of amifampridine and neostigmine may increase the risk for adverse reactions due to additive cholinergic effects. Monitor patients closely for new or worsening side effects such as headache, visual disturbances, watery eyes, excessive sweating, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, loss of bladder control, confusion, or tremors.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with tricyclic antidepressants and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the risk of seizures.
OLANZapine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Paliperidone: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
Perphenazine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold. (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with tricyclic antidepressants and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the risk of seizures.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phendimetrazine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phendimetrazine may increase the risk of seizures.
Phenelzine: (Major) The concomitant use of amifampridine and drugs that lower seizure threshold may lead to an increased risk of seizures; carefully consider the risks versus benefits of combined use. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are associated with a risk for seizures in susceptible patients. Because the effect of MAOIs on the convulsive threshold may be variable, adequate precautions should be taken.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Phentermine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phentermine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phentermine may increase the risk of seizures.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phentermine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phentermine may increase the risk of seizures.
PHYSostigmine: (Moderate) Coaministration of amifampridine and physostigmine may increase the risk for adverse reactions due to additive cholinergic effects. Monitor patients closely for new or worsening side effects such as headache, visual disturbances, watery eyes, excessive sweating, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, loss of bladder control, confusion, or tremors.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Promethazine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Protriptyline: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with tricyclic antidepressants and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the risk of seizures.
pyRIDostigmine: (Moderate) Coaministration of amifampridine and pyridostigmine may increase the risk for adverse reactions due to additive cholinergic effects. Monitor patients closely for new or worsening side effects such as headache, visual disturbances, watery eyes, excessive sweating, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, loss of bladder control, confusion, or tremors.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
risperiDONE: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) Coaministration of amifampridine and rivastigmine may increase the risk for adverse reactions due to additive cholinergic effects. Monitor patients closely for new or worsening side effects such as headache, visual disturbances, watery eyes, excessive sweating, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, loss of bladder control, confusion, or tremors.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with methylphenidate derivatives and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Methylphenidate derivatives may increase the risk of seizures.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Major) Carefully consider the need for aminophylline, as use with amifampridine may increase the risk of seizures. Consider alternatives to aminophylline. If use together is medically necessary, closely monitor patients for seizure activity and closely monitor theophylline concentrations. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Aminophylline is converted to theophylline and is known to have a dose-dependent risk for seizures. (Major) Carefully consider the need for theophylline, as use with amifampridine may increase the risk of seizures. Consider alternatives to theophylline. If use together is medically necessary, closely monitor patients for seizure activity and closely monitor theophylline concentrations. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Theophylline is known to have a dose-dependent risk for seizures.
Thioridazine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Thiothixene: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with thiothixene and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Thiothixene may increase the risk of seizures.
traMADol: (Major) Carefully consider concomitant use of amifampridine with tramadol due to increased seizure risk. The concomitant use of amifampridine and other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as tramadol, may lead to an increased risk of seizures.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Carefully consider concomitant use of amifampridine with tramadol due to increased seizure risk. The concomitant use of amifampridine and other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as tramadol, may lead to an increased risk of seizures.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) The concomitant use of amifampridine and drugs that lower seizure threshold may lead to an increased risk of seizures; carefully consider the risks versus benefits of combined use. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are associated with a risk for seizures in susceptible patients. Because the effect of MAOIs on the convulsive threshold may be variable, adequate precautions should be taken.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with systemic corticosteroids and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Systemic corticosteroids may increase the risk of seizures in some patients.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with tricyclic antidepressants and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the risk of seizures.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phenothiazines and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. Consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phenothiazines may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution with concomitant medications which may also affect seizure threshold.
Trimipramine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with tricyclic antidepressants and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the risk of seizures.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

Subjects classified as N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) poor metabolizers were more likely to experience adverse reactions during amifampridine treatment when compared to intermediate or normal metabolizers. Overall, adverse reactions reported in pediatric patients were similar to those seen in adult patients.

seizures


Amifampridine can cause seizures in patients with and without a history of seizures. Seizures have been observed in approximately 2% of patients with no history of a seizure disorder at various times during treatment with amifampridine at recommended doses. Many patients had comorbid conditions or were taking concomitant medications that may have lowered the seizure threshold. Seizures may be dose-dependent. Consider discontinuation or dose reduction of amifampridine in patients who have a seizure while on treatment.


anxiety, depression, dizziness, dysesthesia, headache, hypoesthesia, insomnia, paresthesias


Paresthesias/dysesthesia including oral paresthesia, oral hypoesthesia, and oral dysesthesia were reported in 62% to 69% of patients during amifampridine clinical trials. Dizziness (10% to 12%), headache (14%), and hypoesthesia (6%) also occurred. Depression, anxiety, and insomnia have been reported in least 5% of patients.


cystitis, infection, influenza


Upper respiratory tract infection (33%) and bronchitis (7%) have been reported during clinical trials for amifampridine. Cystitis, viral infection, pneumonia, and influenza have been reported in at least 5% of patients.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gastroesophageal reflux, nausea, weight loss


Amifampridine has cholinergic activity and may cause gastrointestinal (GI) side effects. Abdominal pain (14% to 25%), dyspepsia (17%), nausea (10% to 14%), diarrhea (14%), and constipation (7%) were reported during clinical trials for amifampridine. Gastroesophageal reflux and dysphagia have been reported in at least 5% of patients. Adverse reactions reported in pediatric patients were similar to those seen in adult patients, except for clinically significant weight loss in 2 pediatric patients at doses of 60 mg/day or more.


elevated hepatic enzymes


Elevated hepatic enzymes (including ALT, AST, lactate dehydrogenase, and gamma-glutamyl transferase) occurred in 14% of patients during amifampridine clinical trials.


arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, myasthenia, weakness


Back pain (8% to 14%), muscle cramps or spasms (6% to 12%), muscular weakness/myasthenia (10%), extremity pain (10%), and falls (7%) have been reported during amifampridine clinical trials. Arthralgia, pain (unspecified), and feeling cold have been reported in at least 5% of patients during expanded access programs.


hypertension


Hypertension was reported in 12% of patients during amifampridine clinical trials.


blurred vision, cataracts


Cataracts were reported in 10% of patients during amifampridine clinical trials. Blurred vision was reported in at least 5% of patients during expanded access programs.


anemia, asthenia, dyspnea, erythema, fever, hypercholesterolemia, lymphadenopathy, peripheral edema


Asthenia (10%) and lymphadenopathy (7%) were reported during amifampridine clinical trials. Dyspnea, peripheral edema, fever, erythema, hypercholesterolemia, and increased creatine phosphokinase (CPK) occurred in at least 5% of patients. Anemia and falls were reported in at least 5% of patients during expanded access programs.


Description

Amifampridine is an oral aminopyridine potassium channel blocker used for the treatment of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS). During 2 double-blind, placebo-controlled discontinuation studies (n = 64), adult patients with LEMS randomized to placebo had statistically significantly greater worsening of muscular weakness according to Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis score change from baseline (amifampridine-placebo treatment difference least squares mean -1.7 [95% CI -3.4, 0]; p = 0.045 and -6.54 [95% CI -9.78, -3.29]; p = 0.0004). Patients receiving placebo also had significant worsening of their impression of treatment effects on their well-being according to Subject Global Impression (SGI) score change from baseline vs. amifampridine. The most common adverse reactions experienced by pediatric and adult patients include paresthesia, abdominal pain, dizziness, and nausea. Seizures have been observed in patients taking amifampridine, and its use is contraindicated in patients with a history of seizure disorders.

Mechanism Of Action

Amifampridine is a broad spectrum potassium channel blocker that prolongs cell membrane depolarization allowing for more calcium to be transferred to the nerve ending. As a result, the vesicular release of acetylcholine and impulse transmission at central, autonomic, and neuromuscular synapses is increased.

Pharmacokinetics

Amifampridine is administered orally. Amifampridine has a moderate to high volume of distribution. In vitro human plasma protein binding is approximately 25%. The drug is rapidly and extensively metabolized (acetylated) by N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) to 3-N-acetyl-amifampridine, which is an inactive metabolite. Metabolism of amifampridine by N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) may also occur but at a much slower rate. Approximately 93% to 100% of an administered dose is eliminated in the urine as amifampridine or 3-N-acetyl-amifampridine within 24 hours. Oral clearance is 149 to 214 L/hour. The terminal half-life ranges from 1.8 to 2.5 hours in healthy adult subjects. Average elimination half-life is 3.6 to 4.2 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Amifampridine is absorbed in a dose-proportional manner with a Tmax ranging from 20 minutes to 1 hour. Steady-state is reached within 1 day of dosing. After single and multiple oral dose administration, AUC, Cmax, and Cmin are highly variable among individuals. Exposure increases proportionally with doses ranging from 20 to 80 mg. Food does not have a clinically significant effect on exposure. Compared to administration in the fasting state, administration of 20 and 30 mg/day doses with a standard high fat meal decreased Cmax 41% and 52%, respectively, with an increase in median Tmax to 1 hour. AUC was only significantly reduced for the 30 mg/day dose (23%).

Hepatic Impairment

In subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (n = 7), amifampridine AUCinf and Cmax increased by 33% and 22%, respectively, compared to subjects with normal hepatic function (n = 9) following administration of 10 mg. Amifampridine has not been studied in subjects with severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Amifampridine exposure is higher in subjects with renal impairment; renal clearance is an elimination pathway. Amifampridine exposure (AUC) was 2- to 3-fold higher in adult subjects with moderate (CrCl 30 to 59 mL/minute) or severe (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute) renal impairment compared to subjects with normal renal function (CrCl of 90 mL/minute or more) during clinical trials. Subjects with mild renal impairment (CrCl 60 to 89 mL/minute) had a 36% increase in exposure compared to subjects with normal renal function.

Pediatrics

Amifampridine clearance increases with an increase in body weight; hence, a weight-based dosing regimen is necessary to achieve exposures in pediatric patients similar to those seen in adults.

Other

N-acetyltransferase gene 2 (NAT2) poor metabolizers (slow acetylators)
Pharmacogenomic differences in amifampridine metabolism have been identified. Genetic variants in the N-acetyltransferase gene 2 (NAT2) affect the rate and extent of amifampridine metabolism. Poor metabolizers (i.e., carriers of 2 reduced function alleles, also known as "slow acetylators") have a 1.3- to 3.7-fold higher Cmax and a 1.1- to 3.7-fold higher AUC (exposure) than intermediate metabolizers (i.e., carriers of 1 reduced and 1 normal function alleles, also known as "intermediate acetylators"). Poor metabolizers have a 3.3- to 7.6-fold higher Cmax and a 5.6- to 9-fold higher AUC (exposure) than normal metabolizers (i.e., carriers of 2 normal function alleles, also referred to as "fast/rapid acetylators). NAT2 poor metabolizer phenotype prevalence is 40% to 60% in White and African American populations, and 10% to 30% in Asian ethnic populations (Japanese, Chinese, or Korean descent).

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


May take without regard to food.
If a dose is missed, do not take double or extra doses.


Extemporaneous Compounding-Oral


A 1 mg/mL suspension can be prepared when patients require a dosage in less than 5 mg increments, have difficulty swallowing tablets, or require feeding tubes.
Firdapse 1 mg/mL suspension
Place the required number of tablets in a 50 to 100 mL container. Crushing the tablets prior to making the suspension is not necessary.
Add 10 mL of Sterile Water per tablet.
Wait 5 minutes.
Shake well for 30 seconds.
Shake well before drawing up each dose.
Storage: Store under refrigeration for up to 24 hours.
Ruzurgi 1 mg/mL suspension
Place three 10-mg tablets in a 30 mL container. Crushing the tablets prior to making the suspension is not necessary.
Add 30 mL of Sterile Water.
Shake well for 30 seconds.
Shake well before drawing up each dose.
Storage: Store under refrigeration for up to 24 hours.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

20 mg/dose and 100 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

20 mg/dose and 100 mg/day PO.

Adolescents


Weighing 45 kg or more: 20 mg/dose and 100 mg/day PO for Firdapse; 30 mg/dose and 100 mg/day PO for Rizurgi.
Weighing less than 45 kg: 10 mg/dose and 50 mg/day PO for Firdapse; 15 mg/dose and 50 mg/day PO for Rizurgi.


Children

6 to 12 years weighing 45 kg or more: 20 mg/dose and 100 mg/day PO for Firdapse; 30 mg/dose and 100 mg/day PO for Rizurgi.
6 to 12 years weighing less than 45 kg: 10 mg/dose and 50 mg/day PO for Firdapse; 15 mg/dose and 50 mg/day PO for Rizurgi.
1 to 5 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Amifampridine Bulk powder

FIRDAPSE 10mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Start at the lowest initial total daily dosage, regardless of the degree of hepatic impairment; monitor closely for adverse reactions. Consider further dosage modification or discontinuation in these patients based on clinical efficacy and tolerabilty.
Adults: Initially, 15 mg/day PO, given in divided doses.
 
Children and Adolescents:
-weighing less than 45 kg: Initially, 5 mg/day (Firdapse) or 7.5 mg/day (Ruzurigi) PO, given in divided doses.
-weighing 45 kg or more: Initially, 15 mg/day (Firdapse or Ruzurgi) PO, given in divided doses.

Renal Impairment

Adults
CrCl 15 to 90 mL/minute: 15 mg/day PO initially.
CrCl less than 15 mL/minute: No dosage recommendations available.
 
Children and Adolescents
CrCl 15 to 90 mL/minute: 5 mg/day PO (Firdapse) or 7.5 mg/day PO (Rizurgi) initially in patients weighing less than 45 kg and 15 mg/day PO (Firdapse or Rizurgi) initially in patients weighing 45 kg or more.
CrCl less than 15 mL/minute: No dosage recommendations available.


© 2026 Elsevier