=== Tolvaptan (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3541)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Tolvaptan is an oral selective vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 60 mg/day PO for up to 30 days for hyponatremia (Samsca); 120 mg/day PO for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (Jynarque).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): colitis, asthenia, dehydration, dizziness, fatigue, fever, hypovolemia, palpitations, polydipsia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hyperuricemia, bleeding, gi bleeding, prolonged bleeding time, vaginal bleeding, disseminated intravascular coagulation (dic), pulmonary embolism, respiratory depression, rhabdomyolysis, stroke, thrombosis, ventricular fibrillation, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Tolvaptan is contraindicated in patients requiring urgent intervention to raise serum sodium acutely, as tolvaptan has not been studied in this clinical setting. There has been no reported clinical experience with the concomitant use of hypertonic saline and tolvaptan therapy; therefore...

Brand Names
  - JYNARQUE
  - Samsca

Dosage Forms
  - JYNARQUE 15mg Tablet
  - JYNARQUE 15mg-15mg Tablet
  - JYNARQUE 30mg Tablet
  - JYNARQUE 30mg-15mg Tablet
  - JYNARQUE 45mg-15mg Tablet
  - JYNARQUE 60mg-30mg Tablet
  - JYNARQUE 90mg-30mg Tablet
  - Samsca 15mg Tablet
  - Samsca 30mg Tablet
  - Tolvaptan 15mg Oral tablet [Hyponatremia]
  - Tolvaptan 15mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease]
  - Tolvaptan 15mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease], Tolvaptan 15mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease]
  - Tolvaptan 15mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease], Tolvaptan 30mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease]
  - Tolvaptan 15mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease], Tolvaptan 45mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease]
  - Tolvaptan 30mg Oral tablet [Hyponatremia]
  - Tolvaptan 30mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease]
  - Tolvaptan 30mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease], Tolvaptan 60mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease]
  - Tolvaptan 30mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease], Tolvaptan 90mg Oral tablet [Polycystic Kidney Disease]

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        15 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose by 30 mg/day after at least 24 hours as needed to achieve the desired serum sodium concentration. Max: 60 mg/day. Do not administer for more than 30 days to minimize the risk of liver injury. A lower initial dose of 7.5 mg/day and longer duration (up to 7 years) has been used.
    Heading
    For the treatment of clinically significant hypervolemic and euvolemic hyponatremia, including that associated with heart failure and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH)
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (Jynarque)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        45 mg PO every morning upon wakening and 15 mg PO once daily 8 hours later, initially. Increase dose to 60 mg PO every morning upon wakening and 30 mg PO once daily 8 hours later, and then 90 mg PO every morning upon wakening and 30 mg PO once daily 8 hours later at a minimum of weekly intervals, if tolerated. May down-titrate based on tolerability.
    Heading
    For the treatment of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) to slow kidney function decline in patients at risk of developing rapidly progressing ADPKD

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Tolvaptan is contraindicated in patients requiring urgent intervention to raise serum sodium acutely, as tolvaptan has not been studied in this clinical setting.
 
There has been no reported clinical experience with the concomitant use of hypertonic saline and tolvaptan therapy; therefore, coadministration of these agents should be avoided.
 
Tolvaptan is metabolized by CYP3A4 and is a substrate for P-glycoprotein. The use of CYP3A4 inhibitors with tolvaptan has been associated with a significant increase in tolvaptan exposure; therefore, the concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated with tolvaptan therapy. Furthermore, tolvaptan should be avoided in patients taking moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors and CYP3A4 inducers, and dosage reduction should be considered if coadministered with P-gp inhibitors (see Drug Interactions).
 
An overly rapid increase in serum sodium concentration during drug administration (> 12 mEq/L/24 hours) can result in serious neurologic sequelae such as osmotic demyelination syndrome that can result in dysarthria, mutism, dysphagia, lethargy, change in affect, spastic quadriparesis, seizures, coma, or death. In controlled clinical trials, 7% of patients with serum sodium 8 mEq/L at 8 hours (compared to 1% for placebo) and 2% had an increase of serum sodium > 12 mEq/L at 24 hours (compared to none for placebo). No patients had evidence of osmotic demyelination syndrome or neurologic sequelae. Although not observed in tolvaptan clinical studies, osmotic demyelination syndrome has been reported following the rapid correction of low serum sodium concentrations. Tolvaptan should be initiated and re-initiated only in a hospital where serum sodium concentrations and neurological status can be closely monitored during therapy. Slower rates of serum sodium correction should be considered in patients more susceptible to the deleterious effects of too rapid a rise in serum sodium concentrations such as patients with severe malnutrition, alcoholism, advanced liver disease, SIADH or those very low baseline serum sodium concentrations (hyponatremia). Tolvaptan should be discontinued or interrupted if the patient develops too rapid a rise in serum sodium concentrations; the administration of hypotonic fluid should be considered. Fluid restriction during the first 24 hours of tolvaptan therapy should be avoided as this may increase the possibility of rapid correction of serum sodium.
 
Tolvaptan is contraindicated in patients with hyponatremia associated with hypovolemia (hypovolemic hyponatremia). The risks of developing hypotension and renal failure from worsening hypovolemia outweigh the possible benefits of therapy with tolvaptan in this population. Additionally, tolvaptan is contraindicated in patients who are unable to sense and respond appropriately to thirst as these patients are at an increased risk of developing an overly rapid correction of serum sodium (i.e., hypernatremia) and hypovolemia.
 
Tolvaptan is contraindicated in patients with anuria since no clinical benefit is expected in patients unable to make urine.
 
Use tolvaptan cautiously in patients with cirrhosis (e.g., hepatic disease). In clinical trials of patients with cirrhosis treated with tolvaptan, gastrointestinal bleeding occurred in 10% (n=6) of tolvaptan patients compared to 2% (n=1) of patients treated with placebo. Furthermore, a slower rate of serum sodium correction should be considered in patients with advanced hepatic disease, as these patients are more susceptible to the serious neurological sequelae (e.g., osmotic demyelination syndrome) that is possible when too rapid a rise in serum sodium concentrations occurs.
 
Dehydration or hypovolemia may occur during the course of tolvaptan therapy, particularly in susceptible patients such as those who are fluid-restricted or those who are volume-depleted and receiving diuretics. Fluid restriction should be avoided during the first 24 hours of therapy as this may increase the risk of dehydration and hypovolemia. Patients should be encouraged to ingest fluid in response to thirst and should be monitored for signs of dehydration and hypovolemia. If clinically significant dehydration or hypovolemia occurs, tolvaptan should be discontinued or interrupted and vital signs and fluid and electrolyte balance should be closely monitored.
 
Tolvaptan should be used cautiously in patients with hyperkalemia. Treatment with tolvaptan is associated with an acute reduction of the extracellular fluid volume that could result in increased serum potassium. Serum potassium levels should be monitored after initiation of tolvaptan treatment in patients with a serum potassium > 5 mEq/L as well as those who are receiving drugs known to increase serum potassium levels.
 
Of the patients included in clinical trials of tolvaptan, 42% were >= 65 years and 19% were >= 75 years. No differences in safety or efficacy were noted between elderly patients when compared to the general study population; however, greater sensitivity of some elderly patients to tolvaptan therapy cannot be ruled out.
 
Tolvaptan is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C. It is not known whether tolvaptan can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women or can affect reproductive capacity. Tolvaptan has been shown to have adverse effects on the fetus when given to pregnant animals (e.g., cleft palate, brachymelia, microphthyalmia, skeletal malformations, decreased fetal weight, delayed fetal ossification, and embryo-fetal death). The effect of tolvaptan use on labor and obstetric delivery in humans has not been studied. Tolvaptan should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies any possible risk to the fetus.
 
It is unknown if tolvaptan is excreted into human breast milk. It is excreted into the milk of lactating rats. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally administered drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.
 
Safety and effectiveness of tolvaptan have not been established in children and adolescents less than 18 years of age.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    alcohol use disorder, fluid restriction, hypernatremia, hypodipsia, hyponatremia, hypovolemia, hypovolemic hyponatremia, malnutrition, requires a specialized care setting
    General Information
    Tolvaptan for rapidly progressing autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is contraindicated in individuals with uncorrected hyponatremia or hypernatremia (i.e., abnormal blood sodium concentrations) or hypovolemia. Tolvaptan for hypervolemic or euvolemic hyponatremia is contraindicated in individuals with hypovolemic hyponatremia. Tolvaptan is also contraindicated in individuals unable to sense or respond to thirst (i.e., hypodipsia) due to the risk for dehydration. Dehydration or hypovolemia may occur during the course of tolvaptan therapy, particularly in individuals who are fluid-restricted or those who are volume-depleted and receiving diuretics. Avoid fluid restriction during the first 24 hours of hyponatremia treatment as this may increase the possibility of rapid correction of serum sodium. Encourage individuals to drink enough water to avoid thirst and dehydration. Monitor for weight loss, tachycardia, and hypotension because they may signal dehydration. The initiation and re-initiation of tolvaptan for hyponatremia requires a specialized care setting, specifically hospitalization, where sodium concentrations and neurological status can be closely monitored during therapy. Consider slower rates of serum sodium correction in individuals more susceptible to the deleterious effects of too rapid a rise in serum sodium concentrations, such as individuals with severe malnutrition, alcohol use disorder, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH), or very low baseline serum sodium concentrations.
    Headline
    hepatic disease, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Tolvaptan for rapidly progressing autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is contraindicated in individuals with a history of signs or symptoms of significant hepatic impairment or injury, not including uncomplicated polycystic liver disease. Measure transaminases and bilirubin before ADPKD treatment, at 2 weeks and 4 weeks after initiation, monthly for the first 18 months, and then every 3 months thereafter. Avoid use of tolvaptan for hypervolemic or euvolemic hyponatremia in individuals with underlying hepatic disease, including cirrhosis, because the ability to recover from liver injury may be impaired. Consider slower rates of serum sodium correction in individuals more susceptible to the deleterious effects of too rapid a rise in serum sodium concentrations, such as individuals with advanced liver disease. Tolvaptan can cause serious and potentially fatal hepatotoxicity.
    Headline
    autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease
    General Information
    Tolvaptan for hypervolemic or euvolemic hyponatremia is contraindicated in individuals with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD).
    Headline
    anuria, prostatic hypertrophy, urinary tract obstruction
    General Information
    Tolvaptan is contraindicated in individuals with anuria, as no clinical benefit can be expected in individuals unable to make urine. Tolvaptan for rapidly progressing autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is contraindicated in individuals with uncorrected urinary tract obstruction. Similarly, do not administer tolvaptan for hypervolemic or euvolemic hyponatremia in individuals with uncorrected urinary outflow obstruction. Individuals with partial obstruction of urinary outflow (e.g., prostatic hypertrophy or micturition impairment) have an increased risk of developing acute urinary retention.
    Headline
    hyperkalemia
    General Information
    Monitor serum potassium concentrations after initiation of tolvaptan for hypervolemic or euvolemic hyponatremia in individuals with hyperkalemia, defined as a serum potassium more than 5 mEq/L, as well as those who are receiving medications known to increase serum potassium concentrations. Treatment with tolvaptan for hypervolemic or euvolemic hyponatremia is associated with an acute reduction of the extracellular fluid volume which could result in increased serum potassium.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Use cautious dose selection for tolvaptan in geriatric adults, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Greater sensitivity of some geriatric adults cannot be ruled out.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate or well-controlled studies on the use of tolvaptan during human pregnancy. In embryo-fetal development studies in animals, tolvaptan did not cause developmental toxicity in rats or rabbits given tolvaptan at exposures approximately 4 and 1-times, respectively, the human exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 90/30 mg for kidney disease (or 2.8 and 0.8 times, respectively, the exposure at the MRHD of 60 mg for congestive heart failure). However, tolvaptan has been shown to have adverse effects on the fetus when given to pregnant animals at maternally toxic doses. At 17 times the human exposure of the 90/30 mg dose (11 times the exposure of the 60 mg dose), reduced body weights and delayed ossification was observed in the offspring of rats. In rabbits, microphthalmia, embryo-fetal mortality, cleft palate, brachymelia, and fused phalanx was evident in offspring exposed to 3-times the human exposure of the 90/30 mg dose (1.6 times the exposure of the 60 mg dose). Counsel pregnant individuals about the potential fetal hazard.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking tolvaptan due to potential serious adverse reactions, including liver toxicity, electrolyte abnormalities, hypotension, and volume depletion in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of tolvaptan in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed infant, or the effects on milk production. In lactating rats administered radiolabeled tolvaptan, the highest level of lacteal radioactivity concentrations occurred 8 hours after administration with a half-life of 27.3 hours. The level of activity in milk ranged from 1.5 to 15.8-fold those found in maternal blood over a period of 72 hours post-dose. Increased perinatal death and decreased body weight were observed during the lactation period and after weaning at approximately 17.3 and 11 times the human exposure at the 90/30 mg dose and the 60 mg dose, respectively.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate or well-controlled studies on the use of tolvaptan during human pregnancy. In embryo-fetal development studies in animals, tolvaptan did not cause developmental toxicity in rats or rabbits given tolvaptan at exposures approximately 4 and 1-times, respectively, the human exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 90/30 mg for kidney disease (or 2.8 and 0.8 times, respectively, the exposure at the MRHD of 60 mg for congestive heart failure). However, tolvaptan has been shown to have adverse effects on the fetus when given to pregnant animals at maternally toxic doses. At 17 times the human exposure of the 90/30 mg dose (11 times the exposure of the 60 mg dose), reduced body weights and delayed ossification was observed in the offspring of rats. In rabbits, microphthalmia, embryo-fetal mortality, cleft palate, brachymelia, and fused phalanx was evident in offspring exposed to 3-times the human exposure of the 90/30 mg dose (1.6 times the exposure of the 60 mg dose). Counsel pregnant individuals about the potential fetal hazard.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking tolvaptan due to potential serious adverse reactions, including liver toxicity, electrolyte abnormalities, hypotension, and volume depletion in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of tolvaptan in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed infant, or the effects on milk production. In lactating rats administered radiolabeled tolvaptan, the highest level of lacteal radioactivity concentrations occurred 8 hours after administration with a half-life of 27.3 hours. The level of activity in milk ranged from 1.5 to 15.8-fold those found in maternal blood over a period of 72 hours post-dose. Increased perinatal death and decreased body weight were observed during the lactation period and after weaning at approximately 17.3 and 11 times the human exposure at the 90/30 mg dose and the 60 mg dose, respectively.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and adagrasib is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; adagrasib is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and potassium-sparing diuretics are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with potassium-sparing diuretics compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and potassium-sparing diuretics are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with potassium-sparing diuretics compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and apalutamide due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of multi-day regimens of oral aprepitant when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with multi-day regimens of oral aprepitant. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Interrupt tolvaptan in ADPKD patients if the recommended reduced doses are not available in patients requiring short-term therapy of aprepitant. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%. When administered as a single oral or single intravenous dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak and did not result in a clinically significant increase in the AUC of a sensitive substrate.
Argatroban: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and atazanavir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and atazanavir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and cobicistat is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avacopan when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with avacopan. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if tolvaptan and baxdrostat are used together. Both medications increase serum potassium concentrations and concomitant use may increase the risk for hyperkalemia. The risk for hyperkalemia may be greatest during and immediately following tolvaptan's peak aquaretic effect as a result of an acute reduction in extracellular fluid volume.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of berotralstat when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with berotralstat. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Bexarotene: (Major) Tolvaptan is metabolized by CYP3A4. Bexarotene is an inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of tolvaptan therapy and should be avoided. If coadministration is unavoidable, an increase in the tolvaptan dose may be necessary and patients should be monitored for decreased effectiveness of tolvaptan.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenacapavir when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with lenacapavir. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and bumetanide are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Captopril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and carbamazepine due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
ceFAZolin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and ceritinib is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; ceritinib is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and chloramphenicol is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; chloramphenicol is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ciprofloxacin when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with ciprofloxacin. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Interrupt tolvaptan in ADPKD patients if the recommended reduced doses are not available in patients requiring short-term therapy of ciprofloxacin. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and cobicistat is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of conivaptan and tolvaptan. Coadministration represents therapeutic duplication and could cause deleterious effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with crizotinib. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cyclosporine when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia; a reduction in the tolvaptan dose according to clinical response may be required if coadministration cannot be avoided. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with cyclosporine. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and darunavir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and cobicistat is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and darunavir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and cobicistat is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and darunavir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Desmopressin: (Major) Coadministration of tolvaptan and desmopressin (DDAVP) is not recommended. Tolvaptan is a V2 receptor antagonist and may interfere with the V2 agonist activity of DDAVP. In a male subject with mild Von Willebrand (vW) disease, intravenous infusion of DDAVP 2 hours after administration of oral tolvaptan did not produce the expected increases in vW Factor Antigen or Factor VIII activity.
Dextran: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Digoxin: (Moderate) Monitor serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing tolvaptan. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and tolvaptan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of digoxin and tolvaptan increased digoxin peaks by 30% and overall exposure by 20%.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid coadministration of diltiazem when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with diltiazem. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dronedarone when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with dronedarone. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of duvelisib when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with duvelisib. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and cobicistat is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and cobicistat is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and encorafenib due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and ensitrelvir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and enzalutamide due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erythromycin when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with erythromycin. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Interrupt tolvaptan in ADPKD patients if the recommended reduced doses are not available in patients requiring short-term therapy of erythromycin. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if ethacrynic acid and tolvaptan are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with tolvaptan is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and tolvaptan is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fedratinib when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with fedratinib. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Fidanacogene Elaparvovec: (Moderate) Monitor for hepatoxicity during concomitant use of fidanacogene elaparvovec and tolvaptan. Both medications have been associated with hepatic injury and concomitant use may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Hepatic injury may also lead to decreased fidanacogene elaparvovec efficacy.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if finerenone and tolvaptan are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. The risk for hyperkalemia may be greatest during and immediately following tolvaptan's peak aquaretic effect as a result of an acute reduction in extracellular fluid volume.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fluconazole when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with fluconazole. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Interrupt tolvaptan in ADPKD patients if the recommended reduced doses are not available in patients requiring short-term therapy of fluconazole. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of fluconazole increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Flutamide: (Major) Tolvaptan is metabolized by CYP3A4. Flutamide is an inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of tolvaptan therapy and should be avoided. If coadministration is unavoidable, an increase in the tolvaptan dose may be necessary and patients should be monitored for decreased effectiveness of tolvaptan.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fluvoxamine when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with fluvoxamine. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fosamprenavir when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with fosamprenavir. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and fosphenytoin due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and furosemide are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Gemcitabine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Gentamicin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit juice while taking tolvaptan. Coadministration of grapefruit juice and tolvaptan has increased tolvaptan exposure by up to 1.8-fold.
Heparin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Hetastarch: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and idelalisib is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; idelalisib is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of imatinib when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with imatinib. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid coadministration of isavuconazonium when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with isavuconazonium. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Interrupt tolvaptan in ADPKD patients if the recommended reduced doses are not available in patients requiring short-term therapy of isavuconazonium. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Tolvaptan is contraindicated for use during and for 2 weeks after itraconazole therapy due to increased exposure to tolvaptan. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; itraconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to increased tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of ketoconazole 200 mg increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold; larger ketoconazole doses are expected to produce larger increases in tolvaptan exposure. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of oral lefamulin when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with oral lefamulin. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenacapavir when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with lenacapavir. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Letermovir: (Major) Concurrent use is contraindicated if the patient is also receiving cyclosporine, because the magnitude of the interaction may be increased. Otherwise, avoid coadministration of letermovir when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with letermovir. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
levETIRAcetam: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to increased tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of ketoconazole 200 mg increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold; larger ketoconazole doses are expected to produce larger increases in tolvaptan exposure. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and lonafarnib is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and ritonavir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Losartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Methotrexate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methotrexate with tolvaptan due to the increased risk of severe methotrexate-related adverse reactions; additive hepatotoxicity may also occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for adverse reactions. Tolvaptan and methotrexate are both hepatotoxic drugs; concomitant use of methotrexate with hepatotoxic drugs may increase methotrexate plasma concentrations. The potential for increased hepatotoxicity when methotrexate is administered with other hepatotoxic drugs has not been evaluated; however, hepatotoxicity has been reported in such cases.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and chronic mifepristone therapy is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; mifepristone is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and mitotane due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Modafinil: (Major) Tolvaptan is metabolized by CYP3A4. Modafinil is an inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of tolvaptan therapy and should be avoided. If coadministration is unavoidable, an increase in the tolvaptan dose may be necessary and patients should be monitored for decreased effectiveness of tolvaptan.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Moxifloxacin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and nefazodone is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; nefazodone is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and nelfinavir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; nelfinavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of netupitant when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with netupitant. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Interrupt tolvaptan in ADPKD patients if the recommended reduced doses are not available in patients requiring short-term therapy of netupitant. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; netupitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nilotinib when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with nilotinib. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and tolvaptan is contraindicated due to the potential for dehydration, hypovolemia, and hyperkalemia; consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase tolvaptan exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and ritonavir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nirogacestat when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with nirogacestat. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Ondansetron: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Perindopril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and phenobarbital due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and phenobarbital due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and phenytoin due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and posaconazole is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; posaconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Potassium Phosphate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and potassium-sparing diuretics are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with potassium-sparing diuretics compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and primidone due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of quinine when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with quinine. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Interrupt tolvaptan in ADPKD patients if the recommended reduced doses are not available in patients requiring short-term therapy of quinine. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; quinine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and relacorilant is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and ribociclib is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; ribociclib is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and ribociclib is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; ribociclib is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and rifampin due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and rifapentine due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rilzabrutinib when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with rilzabrutinib. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with tolvaptan; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and tolvaptan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritlecitinib when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with ritlecitinib. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and ritonavir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and saquinavir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; saquinavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Sodium Chloride: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and tolvaptan. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia. The risk for hyperkalemia may be greatest during and immediately following tolvaptan's peak aquaretic effect as a result of an acute reduction in extracellular fluid volume.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and potassium-sparing diuretics are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with potassium-sparing diuretics compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and potassium-sparing diuretics are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with potassium-sparing diuretics compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and St. John's Wort due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of tolvaptan when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of tolvaptan resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and tipranavir is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; tipranavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Tobramycin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tolvaptan with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; tolvaptan may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and tolvaptan is a weak P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if torsemide and tolvaptan are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of verapamil when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with verapamil. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%. (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Tranexamic Acid: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and potassium-sparing diuretics are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with potassium-sparing diuretics compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and potassium-sparing diuretics are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with potassium-sparing diuretics compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and tucatinib is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Vancomycin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of verapamil when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with verapamil. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and clarithromycin is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and voriconazole is contraindicated. Concurrent use is expected to increase tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; voriconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with voxelotor. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Gastrointestinal adverse events reported more frequently than placebo and with an incidence of > 2% in double-blind, placebo controlled hyponatremia trials of tolvaptan include dry mouth (xerostomia) (13% vs. 4% for placebo) and constipation (7% vs. 2% for placebo). In a subgroup of patients with worsening heart failure and hyponatremia, the incidence of dry mouth was 7% for tolvaptan recipients compared to 2% for placebo recipients and nausea/vomiting was reported in 21% for tolvaptan recipients and 16% for placebo recipients. Ischemic colitis occurred in 2% in double-blind, placebo controlled hyponatremia trials of tolvaptan include thirst (16% vs. 5% for placebo), asthenia (9% vs. 4% for placebo), and fever (pyrexia) (4% vs. 1% for placebo). In a subgroup of patients with worsening heart failure and hyponatremia, the incidence of thirst was 12% for tolvaptan recipients compared to 2% for placebo recipients. In controlled clinical trials, the incidence of dehydration was 3.3% for tolvaptan recipients compared to 1.5% for patients treated with placebo. Patients should be monitored for signs of dehydration and hypovolemia. If clinically significant dehydration or hypovolemia occurs, tolvaptan should be discontinued or interrupted and vital signs and fluid and electrolyte balance should be closely monitored.
 
An overly rapid rise in serum sodium (> 12 mEq/L over 24 hours) may result in serious neurologic sequelae. In controlled clinical trials, 7% of patients with serum sodium 8 mEq/L at 8 hours (compared to 1% for placebo) and 2% had an increase of serum sodium > 12 mEq/L at 24 hours (compared to zero for placebo). No patients had evidence of osmotic demyelination syndrome or neurologic sequelae. Although not reported during tolvaptan use, neurological signs of excessive rise in serum sodium concentrations may include: cerebral edema, muscle paralysis, seizures, or coma; these effects may occur due to an acute decrease in brain cell volume during correction of hyponatremia. For patients who develop an excessively fast rise in serum sodium concentration or hypernatremia, discontinue tolvaptan and carefully monitor serum sodium and neurologic status. Tolvaptan should be administered only in a hospital where serum sodium can be monitored closely.
 
Metabolic adverse events reported more frequently than placebo and with an incidence of > 2% in double-blind, placebo controlled hyponatremia trials of tolvaptan include hyperglycemia (6% vs. 1%) and anorexia (4% vs. 1%). Diabetic ketoacidosis occurred in 2% in double-blind, placebo controlled hyponatremia trials of tolvaptan include pollakiuria or polyuria (11% vs. 3%). In a subgroup of patients with worsening heart failure and hyponatremia, the incidence of pollakiuria or polyuria was 4% for tolvaptan recipients compared to 1% for placebo recipients.
 
The following adverse events have been reported in < 2% of tolvaptan recipients, but greater than placebo, include urethral bleeding, vaginal bleeding, and prolonged bleeding time. Additionally, in clinical trials of hyponatremic patients with cirrhosis treated with tolvaptan, GI bleeding occurred in 10% (n=6) of tolvaptan patients compared to 2% (n=1) of patients treated with placebo.
 
The following adverse events have been reported at an incidence of < 2%, but greater than placebo, in hyponatremic patients in placebo-controlled clinical trials: intracardiac thrombus, ventricular fibrillation, pulmonary embolism, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), deep vein thrombosis, stroke, rhabdomyolysis, and respiratory depression and failure.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    colitis, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, xerostomia
    General Information
    Xerostomia (13% vs. 4% placebo) and constipation (7% vs. 2% placebo) were reported during adult hyponatremia trials. In a subgroup of patients with worsening heart failure and hyponatremia, the incidence of dry mouth was 7% for tolvaptan recipients compared to 2% for placebo recipients. Nausea was reported in 21% of tolvaptan recipients and 16% of placebo recipients. Ischemic colitis occurred in less than 2% of hyponatremic patients in clinical trials. In trials for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), xerostomia (16% vs. 12.4% placebo), diarrhea (13.3% vs. 11% placebo), dyspepsia (7.9% vs. 3.3%), and abdominal distension (4.9% vs. 3.3% placebo) were reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, dehydration, dizziness, fatigue, fever, hypovolemia, palpitations, polydipsia
    General Information
    Polydipsia/thirst (16% vs. 5% placebo), asthenia (9% vs. 4% placebo), and fever (pyrexia) (4% vs. 1% placebo) were reported during adult hyponatremia trials. In a subgroup of patients with worsening heart failure and hyponatremia, the incidence of thirst was 12% for tolvaptan recipients compared to 2% for placebo recipients. In trials for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), thirst (63.7% vs. 23.4% placebo), fatigue (13.6% vs. 9.7% placebo), dizziness (11.3% vs. 8.7% placebo), and palpitations (3.5% vs. 1.2% placebo) were reported. Dehydration occurred in 3.3% of tolvaptan recipients compared to 1.5% of placebo recipients during hyponatremia clinical trials. The rate of dehydration and hypovolemia was 2.1% to 2.3% vs. 0.4% to 0.7% for tolvaptan-treated patients vs. placebo, respectively, during ADPKD clinical trials. Encourage patients to drink enough water to avoid thirst and dehydration. If clinically significant dehydration or hypovolemia occurs, discontinue or interrupt tolvaptan therapy and provide supportive care with careful management of vital signs and fluid and electrolyte balance.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polydipsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypovolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypernatremia
    General Information
    During clinical trials of hyponatremic patients, hypernatremia was reported as an adverse event in 0.7% of patients receiving tolvaptan vs. 0.6% of patients receiving placebo; analysis of laboratory values demonstrated an incidence of hypernatremia of 1.7% in patients receiving tolvaptan vs. 0.8% in patients receiving placebo. In autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) trials, hypernatremia (serum sodium more than 150 mEq/L) was observed in 1.4% to 4% of tolvaptan-treated patients vs. 0.6% or less of placebo-treated patients. Removal of excess free body water increases serum osmolality and serum sodium concentrations. All patients treated with tolvaptan, especially those whose serum sodium concentrations become normal, should continue to be monitored to ensure serum sodium remains within normal limits. If hypernatremia is observed, management may include dose decreases or interruption of tolvaptan treatment, combined with modification of free water intake or infusion.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypernatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hyperuricemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia (6% vs. 1% placebo) and anorexia (4% vs. 1% placebo) were reported during adult hyponatremia trials. Diabetic ketoacidosis occurred in less than 2% of hyponatremic patients in clinical trials. Decreased appetite (7.2% vs. 1% placebo) and hyperuricemia (3.9% vs. 1.9% placebo) were reported in trials for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). Hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or potassium-sparing diuretics than when these medications were administered with placebo during hyponatremia trials. Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely during concomitant therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diabetic ketoacidosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    polyuria
    General Information
    Pollakiuria or polyuria (11% vs. 3% placebo) was reported during adult hyponatremia trials. In a subgroup of patients with worsening heart failure and hyponatremia, the incidence of pollakiuria or polyuria was 4% for tolvaptan recipients compared to 1% for placebo recipients. In trials for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), increased urination (69.5% vs. 28% placebo) was reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bleeding, GI bleeding, prolonged bleeding time, vaginal bleeding
    General Information
    Urethral bleeding, vaginal bleeding, and prolonged bleeding time were reported in less than 2% of tolvaptan recipients and at a rate greater than placebo during hyponatremia trials. Additionally, in hyponatremic patients with cirrhosis, GI bleeding occurred in 10% (n = 6) of tolvaptan patients compared to 2% (n = 1) of patients given placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      prolonged bleeding time
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), pulmonary embolism, respiratory depression, rhabdomyolysis, stroke, thrombosis, ventricular fibrillation
    General Information
    Intracardiac thrombus, ventricular fibrillation, pulmonary embolism, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), deep vein thrombosis, stroke, rhabdomyolysis, and respiratory depression and failure were reported in less than 2% of tolvaptan recipients and at a rate greater than placebo during adult hyponatremia trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      disseminated intravascular coagulation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    osmotic demyelination syndrome
    General Information
    An overly rapid rise in serum sodium (more than 12 mEq/L over 24 hours) may result in osmotic demyelination syndrome. Fluid restriction during the first 24 hours of therapy with tolvaptan may increase the likelihood of overly-rapid correction of serum sodium and should generally be avoided. In controlled clinical trials for the treatment of hyponatremia, 7% of patients with serum sodium less than 130 mEq/L at baseline receiving tolvaptan at doses starting at 15 mg/day had an increase of serum sodium more than 8 mEq/L at 8 hours (compared to 1% for placebo) and 2% had an increase of serum sodium more than 12 mEq/L at 24 hours (compared to zero for placebo). Although no patients in these trials had evidence of osmotic demyelination syndrome or neurologic sequelae, osmotic demyelination syndrome has been reported during postmarketing use of tolvaptan. Osmotic demyelination results in dysarthria, mutism, dysphagia, lethargy, affective changes, spastic quadriparesis, seizures, coma, or death. In susceptible patients, including those with severe malnutrition, alcoholism or advanced liver disease, slower rates of correction may be advisable. Monitor patients treated with tolvaptan to assess serum sodium concentrations and neurologic status, especially during initiation and after dose titration. Patients with SIADH or very low baseline serum sodium concentrations may be at greater risk for too-rapid correction of serum sodium. For patients who develop an excessively fast rise in serum sodium concentration, discontinue or interrupt tolvaptan and consider administration of hypotonic fluid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      osmotic demyelination syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Tolvaptan can cause serious and potentially fatal hepatotoxicity. Acute hepatic failure requiring liver transplantation has been reported with the postmarketing use of tolvaptan in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). In 2 double-blind placebo controlled trials, ALT elevations to more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) were observed in 4.9% of patients with ADPKD taking tolvaptan compared to 1.1% of patients receiving placebo. In patients prescribed tolvaptan for ADPKD, assess AST, ALT, and bilirubin at baseline, at 2 weeks and 4 weeks after initiation, then monthly for 18 months, and every 3 months thereafter to reduce the risk of significant or irreversible liver injury. Discontinue tolvaptan immediately if signs or symptoms of hepatic injury occur or if ALT, AST, or bilirubin increases to more than 2 times ULN; repeat tests within 48 to 72 hours and continue testing as appropriate. If abnormalities stabilize or resolve, tolvaptan may be reinitiated with increased frequency of monitoring. Discontinue tolvaptan permanently if ALT or AST exceeds 3 times ULN at any time during treatment, unless there is another explanation for liver injury and that injury has resolved. Discontinuing therapy in response to laboratory abnormalities or signs or symptoms of liver injury can reduce the risk of severe hepatotoxicity. Significantly elevated hepatic enzymes with concomitant, clinically significant hyperbilirubinemia were observed in 3 tolvaptan-treated patients in a clinical trial of about 1,400 patients with ADPKD and its open-label extension trial. Most of the liver enzyme abnormalities were observed during the first 18 months of therapy, and all 3 patients improved after discontinuation of therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, rash
    General Information
    Rash (4.2% vs. 1.9% placebo) and dry skin (4.9% vs. 1.7% placebo) were reported during clinical trials of tolvaptan for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock have been reported with the postmarketing use of tolvaptan.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Tolvaptan is an oral selective vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist. One tolvaptan product, Samsca, is indicated for the treatment of clinically significant hypervolemic and euvolemic hyponatremia (i.e., serum sodium less than 125 mEq/L or less marked hyponatremia that is symptomatic and has resisted correction with fluid restriction), including in patients with heart failure and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). Samsca use requires initiation or reinitiation in a hospital setting, and should not be used for longer than 30 days due to the risk for liver problems. Tolvaptan can cause serious and potentially fatal liver injury. Due to the risk of hepatic injury associated with tolvaptan, the drug should be avoided in patients with preexisting hepatic disease, including cirrhosis. A second product, Jynarque, is used chronically to slow kidney function decline in patients with rapidly progressing autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). Routine monitoring of liver function is required with the use of tolvaptan for ADPKD; prescribers, pharmacies, and patients must register with the Jynarque REMS program. More information is available at www.jynarque.com/risks-and-rems.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Tolvaptan is a selective vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist with an affinity for the V2-receptor that is 1.8 times that of native arginine vasopressin (AVP). Tolvaptan antagonizes the effect of vasopressin. Decreased binding of vasopressin to the V2-receptor in the kidney lowers adenylate cyclase activity, which results in a decrease in intracellular adenosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) concentrations. Decreased cAMP concentrations prevent aquaporin 2-containing vesicles from fusing with the plasma membrane, which causes an increase in urine water excretion that results in an increase in free water clearance (aquaresis), a decrease in urine osmolality, and a resulting increase in serum sodium concentrations. In autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) cyst epithelial cells, tolvaptan inhibits AVP-stimulated cyst growth in vitro and chloride-dependent fluid secretion into cysts. In animal models, decreased cAMP concentrations are associated with decreases in the total kidney volume growth rate and the rate of formation and enlargement of kidney cysts.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The absolute bioavailability of tolvaptan is 56% (range: 42% to 80%) after a 30-mg dose; bioavailability decreases with increasing doses. Peak concentrations are observed 2 to 4 hours after administration. AUC increases proportionally with dose; however, after administration of doses of 60 mg or more, Cmax increases less than proportionally with dose. Food does not impact bioavailability. Coadministration with a high-fat meal doubles peak concentrations but has no effect on AUC.
 
A peak increase in serum sodium and urine excretion of approximately 6 mEq and 9 mL/minute, respectively, is observed 4 to 8 hours after administration. Approximately 60% of the peak serum sodium effect is sustained at 24 hours post-dose, but the urinary excretion rate is no longer elevated at this time. Doses above 60 mg do not further increase aquaresis or serum sodium. When given as the recommended split-dose regimen for polycystic kidney disease, tolvaptan inhibits vasopressin from binding to the V2-receptor in the kidney for the entire day, as demonstrated by increased urine output and decreased urine osmolality. Change in mean daily urine volume was about 4 L for a mean total daily volume of about 7 L in patients with an eGFR more than 60 mL/minute/1.73m2. In patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73m2, mean change was about 2 L for a total daily urine volume of 5 L.
 
The pharmacokinetic properties of tolvaptan are stereospecific, with a steady-state ratio of the S(-) to the R(+) enantiomer of about 3. Tolvaptan's accumulation factor is less than 1.2 when administered as multiple once-daily 300 mg doses or as split dose regimens to patients with polycystic kidney disease. The accumulation factor is 1.3 with the once-daily hyponatremia regimen. There is marked intersubject variation in peak and average exposure to tolvaptan with a percent coefficient of variation ranging from 30% to 60%.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Moderate or severe hepatic impairment decreases the clearance and increases the Vd of tolvaptan; however, these effects are not clinically significant.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The AUC and Cmax of tolvaptan increased 90% and 10%, respectively, in subjects with a CrCl less than 30 mL/minute compared to those with normal renal function when given a single 60-mg dose. During clinical trials for hyponatremia, the peak increase in serum sodium was 5 to 6 mEq/L regardless of renal function, but the onset and offset of tolvaptan's effect on serum sodium were slower in patients with severe renal impairment.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Congestive Heart Failure
Congestive heart failure decreases the clearance and increases the Vd of tolvaptan; however, these effects are not clinically significant.
  Text
  Tolvaptan is administered orally. Tolvaptan is highly protein bound (99%) to albumin and alpha1-acid glycoprotein; binding is not affected by disease state. Vd is approximately 3 L/kg. The drug is metabolized almost exclusively by CYP3A. Of the 14 metabolites identified in plasma, urine, and feces, all but 1 were also metabolized by CYP3A; none are pharmacologically active. Approximately 40% of a dose is eliminated in the urine (less than 1% as unchanged tolvaptan) and 59% in the feces (19% as unchanged tolvaptan). Estimated half-life of tolvaptan increases from 3 hours (for a single 15 mg oral dose) to approximately 12 hours (for a single dose of 120 mg or more) due to prolonged absorption of tolvaptan at higher doses. Apparent clearance is approximately 4 mL/kg/minute and does not appear to change with increasing dose. Clearance is reduced to about 2 mL/kg/minute in patients with hyponatremia.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, BCRP, OATP1B1, OAT3, P-gp
Tolvaptan is metabolized almost exclusively by CYP3A. Tolvaptan is a substrate and inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and an inhibitor of BCRP. The oxobutyric acid metabolite of tolvaptan is an inhibitor of OATP1B1 and OAT3.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    May administer with or without food.
 
Samsca (for hyponatremia)
Only initiate and reinitiate treatment in a hospital where serum sodium concentrations and volume status can be closely monitored.
Avoid fluid restriction during the first 24 hours of therapy. Advise patients to drink fluid in response to thirst.
Monitor for neurologic changes associated with rapid correction of serum sodium concentrations (more than 12 mEq/L over 24 hours).
Limit duration to 30 days due to the risk of hepatic injury.
 
Jynarque (for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease)
Encourage patients to drink enough water to avoid thirst and dehydration.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    60 mg/day PO for up to 30 days for hyponatremia (Samsca); 120 mg/day PO for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (Jynarque).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    60 mg/day PO for up to 30 days for hyponatremia (Samsca); 120 mg/day PO for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (Jynarque).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Samsca: Avoid in patients with underlying hepatic disease.
Jynarque: At the onset of signs or symptoms consistent with hepatic injury OR if ALT, AST, or bilirubin increase to more than 2 times upper limit of normal (ULN), immediately discontinue therapy and obtain repeat tests within 48 to 72 hours; continue testing, if appropriate. If laboratory abnormalities stabilize or resolve, reinitiate therapy with increased frequency of monitoring as long as ALT and AST remain below 3 times ULN. Do not restart therapy in patients who experience signs or symptoms of hepatic injury or whose ALT and AST ever exceed 3 times ULN during treatment, unless there is another explanation for liver injury and that injury has resolved. In patients with stable, low baseline ALT and AST, an increase above 2 times baseline, even if less than 2 times ULN, may indicate early liver injury. Suspension of treatment may be warranted; obtain repeat tests within 48 to 72 hours prior to reinitiating therapy and monitor more frequently.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 10 to 79 mL/minute: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl less than 10 mL/minute and patients requiring hemodialysis: No information is available; tolvaptan is contraindicated in anuric patients.
