=== Triclabendazole (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5128)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Triclabendazole is an oral anthelmintic indicated for the treatment of fascioliasis in patients 6 years and older.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg/kg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, urticaria, asthenia, fever, headache, vertigo

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Use triclabendazole with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural...

Brand Names
  - Egaten

Dosage Forms
  - Egaten 250mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 mg/kg/dose PO for 2 doses given 12 hours apart. The 250 mg tablets are scored and divisible into 2 equal halves; round the dose up if it cannot be adjusted exactly.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        10 mg/kg/dose PO for 2 doses given 12 hours apart. The 250 mg tablets are scored and divisible into 2 equal halves; round the dose up if it cannot be adjusted exactly.
    Heading
    For the treatment of fascioliasis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, hepatic failure, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use triclabendazole with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Additional risk factors may include hepatic failure and concomitant use of CYP1A2 inhibitors. Monitor ECG in individuals with a history of QT prolongation or symptoms associated with a long QT interval, electrolyte imbalances like hypokalemia, hepatic impairment, or those receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval or CYP1A2 inhibitors. The magnitude of QT prolongation can increase with increasing triclabendazole treatment duration. If signs of cardiac arrhythmia occur during treatment with triclabendazole, discontinue triclabendazole and monitor ECG.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Triclabendazole is also contraindicated in individuals with known hypersensitivity to other benzimidazole derivatives.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    In general, use cautious dose selection for triclabendazole in geriatric adults, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of triclabendazole during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Animal studies did not show an increased risk of fetal abnormalities with exposure to triclabendazole during organogenesis at doses approximately 0.3 to 1.6 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 20 mg/kg based on body surface area.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use triclabendazole with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of triclabendazole in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production. Based on limited data, triclabendazole is present in animal milk. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of triclabendazole during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Animal studies did not show an increased risk of fetal abnormalities with exposure to triclabendazole during organogenesis at doses approximately 0.3 to 1.6 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 20 mg/kg based on body surface area.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use triclabendazole with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of triclabendazole in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production. Based on limited data, triclabendazole is present in animal milk. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Monitor for anemia and hypoxia if concomitant use of triclabendazole with belzutifan is necessary due to increased plasma exposure of belzutifan which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of belzutifan as recommended if anemia or hypoxia occur. Belzutifan is a CYP2C19 substrate and triclabendazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ceritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ceritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ciprofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Triclabendazole exposure may also be increased, further elevating the risk of QT-related cardiac events. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate, ciprofloxacin is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of triclabendazole and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and triclabendazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced clopidogrel efficacy during concomitant use of triclabendazole. Clopidogrel is primarily metabolized to its active metabolite by CYP2C19; triclabendazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and clozapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Crizotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and crizotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and dasatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and deferasirox is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and deferasirox is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and triclabendazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with triclabendazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP2C19 substrate and triclabendazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in doxepin-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of triclabendazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase doxepin exposure; doxepin is primarily metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 and triclabendazole is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of triclabendazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and eliglustat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and enasidenib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and enasidenib is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and encorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and escitalopram may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and triclabendazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Triclabendazole exposure may also be increased, further elevating the risk of QT-related cardiac events. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and fingolimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and fluconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and fluoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of triclabendazole and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and fluvoxamine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Triclabendazole exposure may also be increased, further elevating the risk of QT-related cardiac events. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate, fluvoxamine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor phenytoin concentrations if triclabendazole is initiated or discontinued in a patient taking fosphenytoin; fosphenytoin dose adjustments may be needed. Coadministration of triclabendazole and fosphenytoin may result in increased phenytoin concentrations; however, this elevation may be transient due to the short treatment duration of triclabendazole. Triclabendazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C19 in vitro and phenytoin is partially metabolized by CYP2C19.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and gemifloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and gemtuzumab may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and triclabendazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Givosiran: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and givosiran is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and givosiran is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and granisetron may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and haloperidol may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and hydroxyzine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and inotuzumab increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and itraconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and triclabendazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and lapatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lefamulin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and lefamulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and levofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and triclabendazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and lithium may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and lopinavir; ritonavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting triclabendazole therapy. Avoid initiation of triclabendazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable triclabendazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and triclabendazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and triclabendazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and mefloquine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and methadone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Methoxsalen: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and methoxsalen is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and methoxsalen is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and mexiletine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and mexiletine is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and mirtazapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nilotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and nilotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and fluoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Triclabendazole exposure may also be increased, further elevating the risk of QT-related cardiac events. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate, osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of triclabendazole and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of triclabendazole and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor phenytoin concentrations if triclabendazole is initiated or discontinued in a patient taking phenytoin; phenytoin dose adjustments may be needed. Coadministration of triclabendazole and phenytoin may result in increased phenytoin concentrations; however, this elevation may be transient due to the short treatment duration of triclabendazole. Triclabendazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C19 in vitro and phenytoin is partially metabolized by CYP2C19.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of triclabendazole and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and posaconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and triclabendazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of triclabendazole and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ranolazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and risperidone may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and rucaparib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and saquinavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and ethinyl estradiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and sertraline may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and solifenacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and sunitinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and tacrolimus may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and tamoxifen may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of triclabendazole and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and tolterodine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of triclabendazole and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and vardenafil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Triclabendazole exposure may also be increased, further elevating the risk of QT-related cardiac events. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate, vemurafenib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and venlafaxine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and voclosporin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and voriconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and triclabendazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    Triclabendazole prolongs the QTc interval. The magnitude of QT prolongation can increase with increasing treatment duration. If signs of cardiac arrhythmia occur during treatment with triclabendazole, stop therapy and monitor the ECG.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported during triclabendazole clinical trials include abdominal pain (56% to 93%), nausea (8% to 18%), vomiting (6% to 7%), anorexia (3% to 18%), diarrhea (7%), and constipation (up to 2%). Abdominal pain may be secondary to fascioliasis and may be more frequent or severe in patients with a heavy worm burden.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice
    General Information
    Hepatic adverse reactions reported during triclabendazole clinical trials include jaundice (2%), including ocular icterus, and biliary colic (up to 2%). Jaundice and biliary colic may be secondary to fascioliasis and may be more frequent or severe in patients with a heavy worm burden. In clinical studies, up to one-third of patients had elevated hepatic enzymes at baseline, which generally improved after treatment. Of those with normal hepatic enzyme values at baseline, 6.8%, 4.5%, 4.2%, and 3% of patients had post-treatment elevations in bilirubin (hyperbilirubinemia), AST, alkaline phosphatase, and ALT, respectively. Transient increases in hepatic enzymes and total bilirubin in fascioliasis patients receiving triclabendazole have been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperhidrosis, pruritus, urticaria
    General Information
    Dermatologic adverse reactions reported during triclabendazole clinical trials include hyperhidrosis (23% to 25%), urticaria (7% to 11%), and pruritus (4%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fever, headache, vertigo
    General Information
    Miscellaneous adverse reactions reported during triclabendazole clinical trials include vertigo (9%), headache (6% to 14%), asthenia (4%), and fever/pyrexia (2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified)
    General Information
    Chest pain was reported during triclabendazole clinical trials and included musculoskeletal chest pain (4%), chest pain (unspecified) (3%), and chest discomfort (2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea
    General Information
    Respiratory adverse reactions reported during triclabendazole clinical trials include dyspnea (5%) and cough (4%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal adverse reactions reported in up to 2% of patients during triclabendazole clinical trials include arthralgia, back pain, and spinal pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    urine discoloration
    General Information
    Chromaturia (urine discoloration) was reported in up to 2% of patients during triclabendazole clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urine discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Triclabendazole is an oral anthelmintic indicated for the treatment of fascioliasis in patients 6 years and older. It is given as a 2-dose regimen. Triclabendazole prolongs the QT interval. Gastrointestinal adverse reactions are common, but may also be secondary to the infection and may be more frequent or severe in patients with a heavy worm burden.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Triclabendazole is an anthelmintic against Fasciola species. Triclabendazole and its metabolites are active against the immature and mature worms of Fasciola hepatica and Fasciola gigantica. The mechanism by which it exhibits its effect is not fully elucidated. In vitro and animal studies suggest that triclabendazole and its active metabolites (sulfoxide and sulfone) are absorbed by the tegument of the immature and mature worms, leading to a decrease of the resting membrane potential and inhibition of tubulin function as well as protein and enzyme synthesis. These metabolic disturbances are associated with inhibition of motility and disruption of the surface and ultrastructure that includes inhibition of spermatogenesis and vitelline cells.
 
The mechanism of resistance for triclabendazole may be multifactorial and include changes in the drug uptake/efflux mechanisms, the target molecules, and altered metabolism. The clinical significance of resistance in humans is not established.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration of a single dose of triclabendazole at 10 mg/kg with a 560-kcal meal, the median Tmax for the parent compound and the sulfoxide metabolite was 3 to 4 hours. The mean Cmax for triclabendazole, the sulfoxide metabolite, and the sulfone metabolite was 1.16, 38.6, and 2.29 micromoles/L, respectively. The AUC for triclabendazole, the sulfoxide metabolite, and the sulfone metabolite was 5.72, 386, and 30.5 micromoles x hour/L, respectively. The Cmax and AUC of triclabendazole and the sulfoxide metabolite increased approximately 3-fold and 2-fold, respectively, when triclabendazole was administered with a meal containing a total of 560 kcal. In addition, the sulfoxide metabolite Tmax increased from 2 hours in the fasted state to 4 hours in the fed state.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of triclabendazole have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of triclabendazole have not been studied in patients with renal impairment.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    In 1 pharmacokinetic study that included 7 pediatric patients (ages 9 to 15 years) administered a single 10 mg/kg dose, the AUC values of triclabendazole sulfoxide were 20% lower in the fed state than in the 13 patients older than 15 years of age. However, the difference was not statistically significant.
  Text
  Triclabendazole is administered orally. Protein binding of triclabendazole, the sulfoxide metabolite, and the sulfone metabolite in human plasma is 96.7%, 98.4%, and 98.8%, respectively. The apparent volume of distribution of the sulfoxide metabolite in fed patients is approximately 1 L/kg. Triclabendazole is metabolized to an active sulfoxide metabolite which is further metabolized to an active sulfone metabolite. No excretion data are available in humans; however, in animals, triclabendazole and its metabolites are largely excreted via the biliary tract in the feces (90%). Less than 10% of the oral dose is excreted in the urine. The plasma half-life of triclabendazole, the sulfoxide metabolite, and the sulfone metabolite in humans is approximately 8, 14, and 11 hours, respectively.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19
Based on in vitro studies, triclabendazole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 (approximately 64%) into its active sulfoxide metabolite and to a lesser extent by CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A, and FMO. The sulfoxide metabolite is further metabolized primarily by CYP2C9 to the active sulfone metabolite and to a lesser extent by CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP1B1, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4, in vitro. Triclabendazole and its metabolites have the potential to inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A at clinically relevant plasma concentrations, with the highest potential of inhibition on CYP2C19.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take with food.
Tablets can be swallowed whole or divided in half and taken with water.
Tablets may also be crushed and administered in applesauce. Crushed tablets mixed with applesauce are stable for up to 4 hours.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/kg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/kg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/kg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    6 to 12 years: 20 mg/kg/day PO.
1 to 5 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
