=== Acidulated Phosphate Fluoride — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2825)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acidulated phosphate fluoride (APF) is a topical mixture of sodium fluoride and phosphoric acid.

Routes: dental/oral rinse, topical; Common adult doses: No maximum dosage information is available.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthenia, atopic dermatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, headache, urticaria, weakness, hematemesis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Acidulated phosphate fluoride topical preparations are not intended for systemic fluoride treatment and should not be swallowed.

ACIDULATED PHOSPHATE FLUORIDE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

60 Second, APF, Carles 60 Second APF, Dental Resources APF, Fluorident , FluoroCare Dual Rinse Part A, Fluorofoam, Minute-Gel, Nupro APF Gel, Perfect Choice APF, Perfect Choice One Minute APF, Protect APF, Quik-Set, Topex 00:60 Second APF

Indication Specific Dosing

For dental caries prophylaxis

Topical dosage (0.44% sodium fluoride solution)
Adults, Adolescents, and Children 6—12 years


Once daily after brushing and flossing, vigorously swish 10 mL around the teeth for 1 minute, then expectorate.


Topical dosage (1.1% sodium fluoride gel)
Adults, Adolescents, and Children 6—12 years


Once daily after brushing and flossing, apply a thin ribbon of gel to the teeth with a toothbrush or mouth tray for at least 1 minute, then expectorate.


Topical dosage (1.2% sodium fluoride foam)
Adults, Adolescents, and Children 6 - 12 years


After dental cleaning, apply the foam using a mouth tray for 1—4 minutes, then expectorate. Application frequency will depend on the patient's risk factors for caries development. The manufacturer suggests treatment 2—3 times per year, or 2—3 times every 6 months for patients with rampant or active caries.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

dysphagia


Some acidulated phosphate fluoride products are contraindicated for use in patients with dysphagia.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

General Information

Acidulated phosphate fluoride topical preparations are not intended for systemic fluoride treatment and should not be swallowed. Accidental ingestion of a usual treatment dose is usually not harmful. In the event that more than a usual treatment dose is swallowed, administer calcium (e.g. milk) and get emergency medical help or contact a Poison control Center right away.

pregnancy


Appropriate dental application of acidulated phosphate fluoride products during pregnancy should not lead to substantial increases in maternal or fetal systemic fluoride concentrations. Fluoride readily crosses the placenta. Animal studies (rats and rabbits) have shown that fluoride is not teratogenic. Maternal animal exposure to 18 mg/kg of fluoride did not affect maternal body weight, litter size or fetal weight and did not increase frequency of skeletal or visceral malformations. While there are no adequate and well-controlled studies during human pregnancy, several epidemiological studies show no increase in birth defects in areas with fluoridated water compared to areas with low fluoridated water.


breast-feeding


Use of acidulated phosphate fluoride products during breast-feeding is considered compatible. Appropriate dental use does not result in increased maternal systemic fluoride concentrations.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Appropriate dental application of acidulated phosphate fluoride products during pregnancy should not lead to substantial increases in maternal or fetal systemic fluoride concentrations. Fluoride readily crosses the placenta. Animal studies (rats and rabbits) have shown that fluoride is not teratogenic. Maternal animal exposure to 18 mg/kg of fluoride did not affect maternal body weight, litter size or fetal weight and did not increase frequency of skeletal or visceral malformations. While there are no adequate and well-controlled studies during human pregnancy, several epidemiological studies show no increase in birth defects in areas with fluoridated water compared to areas with low fluoridated water.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Acidulated Phosphate Fluoride products.

Adverse Reaction
asthenia, atopic dermatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, headache, stomatitis, urticaria, weakness


Topical use of sodium fluoride, which is provided by acidulated phosphate fluoride, has produced allergic and sensitivity reactions. Urticaria, exfoliative dermatitis, atopic dermatitis, stomatitis, headache, asthenia (weakness), and respiratory problems have occurred in those with fluoride hypersensitivity.


anemia, dental fluorosis


Acidulated phosphate fluoride foam, rinse, and gel produce few side effects when used as directed. Care should be taken by all patients to avoid swallowing acidulated phosphate fluoride foam, gel, and solution. If the foam, rinse, or gel is accidentally swallowed, contact a Poison Control Center immediately. If the rinse or gel is swallowed on a continuous basis, dental fluorosis may develop. Too much fluoride ingestion by children less than 8 years of age can cause mottling, staining, tooth discoloration, or hypoplasia of tooth enamel. Dental fluorosis is largely a cosmetic issue and is of most concern for children under 6 years of age. Enamel is no longer susceptible once its pre-eruptive maturation is complete. Chronic fluoride intake can produce general fluorosis, with asthenia, weight loss, and anemia. Skeletal bones may also be affected, and in extreme cases become brittle.


tooth discoloration


Acidulated phosphate fluoride may cause staining of porcelain and ceramic denture restorations. Patients with porcelain or ceramic dental restorations should only use neutral sodium fluoride to avoid tooth discoloration.


abdominal pain, diarrhea, hematemesis, nausea, vomiting


Unintentional ingestion of large doses or improper use of acidulated fluoride can result in acute mouth irritation and gastrointestinal adverse effects including stomach upset, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hematemesis, epigastric cramping, and abdominal pain.


Description

Acidulated phosphate fluoride (APF) is a topical mixture of sodium fluoride and phosphoric acid. Fluoride reduces cavity development in both children and adults. Topical dental fluorides like APF are found in a variety of dentally applied forms, such as mouth rinses, gels, and foams. APF may be used in adults and children 6 years of age and older. APF strengthens teeth already present in the mouth by making them more decay-resistant and reducing caries. Fluoride also helps repair the early stages of tooth decay even before the decay becomes visible. APF preparations have an acidic pH and unlike neutral sodium fluoride formulations, the low pH favors fluorhydroxyapatite formation.

Mechanism Of Action

Mechanism of Action: Fluoride reduces the incidence of dental caries and slows or reverses the progression of existing lesions, thereby helping to prevent cavity formation. Acid is formed when cariogenic bacteria in plaque break down sugars and carbohydrates from the diet. Fluoride is released from dental plaque in response to the lowered pH at the tooth-plaque interface. Saliva provides a buffering action that neutralizes plaque acids. If plaque acids are not neutralized, demineralization of the tooth occurs. Carbonated calcium hydroxyapatite largely composes dental mineral. Replacement of a portion of the phosphate in calcium hydroxyapatite with a carbonate results in carbonated calcium hydroxyapatite, which is more soluble, especially in acidic media, than calcium hydroxyapatite. Once the plaque pH is restored, remineralization can take place. The process of demineralization and remineralization is continuous over the life of the tooth. Repeated acid attacks can result in a cavity. The presence of fluoride at the site of remineralization is ideal. The released fluoride, along with the fluoride present in saliva, is taken up with calcium and phosphate by demineralized enamel to establish an improved enamel crystal structure containing fluoroapatite. Acidulated phosphate fluoride reacts with enamel hydroxyapatite to form fluoroapatite, which is more acid resistant than the replaced carbonated calcium hydroxyapatite. Thus, topical fluoride use helps reduce cavity formation by transiently increasing the fluoride concentration in saliva. Also, topical fluoride application leaves a temporary layer of calcium fluoride-like material on the enamel surface. The fluoride in this calcium fluoride-like material is released when the pH in the mouth drops in response to acid production, providing fluoride to remineralize enamel. The improved enamel structure that results is more acid resistant.In addition to helping create an improved enamel structure, fluoride presence in plaque helps reduce acid production from cariogenic bacteria by inhibiting their metabolism of carbohydrates. Fluoride also reduces cariogenic bacteria production of polysaccharides that enhance adherence of the plaque to enamel.

Pharmacokinetics

Acidulated phosphate fluoride is administered topically to the teeth. Fluoride is more readily taken up by demineralized enamel than by intact enamel. Acidulated phosphate fluoride produces calcium fluoride, fluorhydroxyapatite and phosphate ions. Unlike neutral sodium fluoride preparations, the presence of phosphoric acid in acidulated phosphate fluoride favors the formation of fluorhydroxyapatite - the more acidic the formulation, the more the rate of reaction between fluoride and hydroxyapatite is enhanced. Thus, less calcium fluoride is produced and phosphate ion loss is minimal. In contrast, lowering the pH of neutral sodium fluoride or increasing the fluoride concentration to greater than 100 ppm favors the formation of calcium fluoride. Most of the fluoride in teeth is concentrated in dental enamel, and secondly at the dentinoenamel junction. Systemic absorption of properly used acidulated phosphate fluoride is minute and insignificant. Systemic absorption of fluoride from the gel, foam, or oral solution improperly used can be significant. Absorption from the GI tract is rapid and almost complete. Ionic fluoride is the pharmacologically active form and 15—20% of plasma fluoride is ionized. Once absorbed, fluoride is stored in bones and teeth. Skeletal tissue has a high capacity for storage of fluoride ions, and is responsible for maintaining a low concentration of fluoride in the body. Teeth represent a small repository of fluoride because of their relatively small mass. Fluoride in teeth is not readily released. Serum fluoride concentrations of 5—10 microMol/L are believed to be therapeutic.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Topical Route

The intra-oral pharmacokinetics of topically applied fluoride have not been well described. For example, the desirability of occasional high fluoride peaks of short duration in the oral cavity versus smaller, more frequent peaks is unknown.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Topical Administration


Acidulated phosphate fluoride is applied topically to the teeth in the form of gels, foams or mouth rinses. Instruct patient on proper use of specific products (see Dosage and Patient Information).
Children require supervision in the use of topical preparations. Acidulated phosphate fluoride should not be swallowed unless specified by the dentist. Avoid overuse or ingestion of any topical product.


Other Topical Formulations

Gel:
After use of the acidulated phosphate fluoride gel, adults and adolescents at least 16 years of age should not eat, drink or rinse with water for at least 30 minutes for best results. Children and adolescents between the ages of 6 and 16 years should rinse their mouths with water after spitting the gel out.
Foam:
On new bottles, break the shipping safety tab by pushing forward on the nozzle.
Shake the bottle vigorously for 3—4 seconds. Place bottle with nozzle pointed straight downward close to bottom of tray. Slowly press down on the valve trigger and fill about one quarter of the tray. The foam will expand to fill the tray.
Place the tray in the patient's mouth and have patient bite down lightly for 1—4 minutes.
Remove the tray and have the patient spit out the remaining foam in their mouth.
After receipt of the acidulated phosphate fluoride foam, patients should not eat, drink or rinse with water for at least 30 minutes for best results.
Rinse:
Children need to be shown how to swish the solution around their teeth and to spit out the rinse to prevent swallowing the solution.
After receipt of the acidulated phosphate fluoride solution, patients should not eat, drink or rinse with water for at least 30 minutes for best results.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

No maximum dosage information is available.

Elderly

No maximum dosage information is available.

Adolescents

No maximum dosage information is available.

Children

>= 6 years: No maximum dosage information is available.
< 6 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Acidulated Phosphate Fluoride 0.31% Dental solution

Dental Resources APF 1.24% Concentrate Dental Solution (Bubblegum)

Dental Resources APF 1.24% Concentrate Dental Solution (Citrus)

Dental Resources APF 1.24% Concentrate Dental Solution (Mint)

Dental Resources APF 1.24% Concentrate Dental Solution (Raspberry)

Protect APF 1.23% Fluoride Foam Dental Solution (Lemon-Lime)

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier