=== Avatrombopag — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5052)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Avatrombopag is an oral thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic liver disease scheduled to undergo a medical or dental procedure or with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) who have had an insufficient response to previous...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 60 mg/day PO in chronic liver disease and 40 mg/day PO in chronic immune thrombocytopenia.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, arthralgia, fatigue, fever, headache, myalgia, bleeding, epistaxis, petechiae, cough, infection, pharyngitis, erythema, pruritus, rash

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Consider the potential increased thrombotic risk when administering avatrombopag to individuals with known risk factors for thromboembolism such as thrombophilia, which includes genetic prothrombotic conditions (e.g., Factor V Leiden, prothrombin 20210A, antithrombin deficiency, protein C or S...

AVATROMBOPAG

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

DOPTELET, Doptelet Sprinkle

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of chronic liver disease-associated thrombocytopenia in patients who are scheduled to undergo a procedure

Oral dosage (tablets)
Adults


60 mg PO once daily for 5 days if the platelet count is less than 40,000/mm3 or 40 mg PO once daily for 5 days if the platelet count is 40,000 to 49,999/mm3 beginning 10 to 13 days before the scheduled procedure. Schedule the procedure 5 to 8 days after the last dose.


For the treatment of persistent or chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) in patients who have had an insufficient response to previous treatment

Oral dosage (tablets)
Adults


20 mg PO once daily, initially. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Assess platelet counts weekly until a stable platelet count of 50,000/mm3 or more is achieved. For platelets less than 50,000/mm3 after at least 2 weeks of treatment, increase the dose by 1 dose level; do not exceed 40 mg/day PO. For platelets 200,000 to 400,000/mm3, decrease the dose by 1 dose level. Wait 2 weeks to assess the effects of any dosage adjustments. For platelets more than 400,000/mm3, stop therapy; increase frequency of platelet monitoring to twice weekly. Once the platelet count is less than 150,000/mm3, reinitiate therapy at a dose reduced by 1 dose level. Dose levels are as follows: Dose Level 1 = 20 mg PO once weekly; Dose Level 2 = 20 mg PO twice weekly or 40 mg PO once weekly; Dose Level 3 = 20 mg PO 3 times weekly; Dose Level 4 (Initial Dose) = 20 mg PO once daily; Dose Level 5 = 40 mg PO 3 times weekly and 20 mg PO on the remaining 4 days per week; Dose Level 6 = 40 mg PO once daily. If platelets do not increase to 50,000/mm3 or more after 4 weeks of the maximum dose or if the platelet count is more than 400,000/mm3 after 2 weeks of the lowest dose, discontinue avatrombopag. Use the lowest possible dose to maintain platelet counts of 50,000/mm3 or more.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years


20 mg PO once daily, initially. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Assess platelet counts weekly until a stable platelet count of 50,000/mm3 or more is achieved. For platelets less than 50,000/mm3 after at least 2 weeks of treatment, increase the dose by 1 dose level; do not exceed 40 mg/day PO. For platelets 200,000 to 400,000/mm3, decrease the dose by 1 dose level. Wait 2 weeks to assess the effects of any dosage adjustments. For platelets more than 400,000/mm3, stop therapy; increase frequency of platelet monitoring to twice weekly. Once the platelet count is less than 150,000/mm3, reinitiate therapy at a dose reduced by 1 dose level. Dose levels are as follows: Dose Level 1 = 20 mg PO once weekly; Dose Level 2 = 20 mg PO twice weekly or 40 mg PO once weekly; Dose Level 3 = 20 mg PO 3 times weekly; Dose Level 4 (Initial Dose) = 20 mg PO once daily; Dose Level 5 = 40 mg PO 3 times weekly and 20 mg PO on the remaining 4 days per week; Dose Level 6 = 40 mg PO once daily. If platelets do not increase to 50,000/mm3 or more after 4 weeks of the maximum dose or if the platelet count is more than 400,000/mm3 after 2 weeks of the lowest dose, discontinue avatrombopag. Use the lowest possible dose to maintain platelet counts of 50,000/mm3 or more.


Oral dosage (Sprinkle capsules)
Children 1 to 5 years


10 mg PO once daily, initially. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Assess platelet counts weekly until a stable platelet count of 50,000/mm3 or more is achieved. For platelets less than 50,000/mm3 after at least 2 weeks of treatment, increase the dose by 1 dose level; do not exceed 20 mg/day PO. For platelets 200,000 to 400,000/mm3, decrease the dose by 1 dose level. Wait 2 weeks to assess the effects of any dosage adjustments. For platelets more than 400,000/mm3, stop therapy; increase frequency of platelet monitoring to twice weekly. Once the platelet count is less than 150,000/mm3, reinitiate therapy at a dose reduced by 1 dose level. Dose levels are as follows: Dose Level 1 = 10 mg PO once weekly; Dose Level 2 = 10 mg PO twice weekly or 20 mg PO once weekly; Dose Level 3 = 10 mg PO 3 times weekly; Dose Level 4 (Initial Dose) = 10 mg PO once daily; Dose Level 5 = 20 mg PO 3 times weekly and 10 mg PO on the remaining 4 days per week; Dose Level 6 = 20 mg PO once daily. If platelets do not increase to 50,000/mm3 or more after 4 weeks of the maximum dose or if the platelet count is more than 400,000/mm3 after 2 weeks of the lowest dose, discontinue avatrombopag. Use the lowest possible dose to maintain platelet counts of 50,000/mm3 or more.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

thrombophilia


Thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor agonists, such as avatrombopag, have been associated with thrombotic and thromboembolic complications. Consider the potential increased thrombotic risk when administering avatrombopag to individuals with known risk factors for thromboembolism such as thrombophilia, which includes genetic prothrombotic conditions (e.g., Factor V Leiden, prothrombin 20210A, antithrombin deficiency, protein C or S deficiency) and acquired risk factors (e.g., antiphospholipid antibody syndrome). Do not administer avatrombopag to individuals with chronic liver disease or chronic immune thrombocytopenia in an attempt to normalize platelet counts. Follow dosing guidelines to achieve target platelet counts. Monitor individuals receiving avatrombopag for signs and symptoms of thromboembolism and institute prompt treatment if such events occur.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


Available data on the use of avatrombopag during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Based on data from animal reproduction studies, avatrombopag may cause fetal harm. When rats and rabbits were administered avatrombopag doses resulting in exposures substantially higher than the AUC observed in humans at the recommended dose, spontaneous abortions, total litter losses, decreased body weight in pups, and increased pup mortality were observed. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential risk to the fetus.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking avatrombopag and for 2 weeks after the last dose. Avatrombopag has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breast-fed child. There are no data regarding the presence of avatrombopag in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Avatrombopag is present in animal milk.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data on the use of avatrombopag during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Based on data from animal reproduction studies, avatrombopag may cause fetal harm. When rats and rabbits were administered avatrombopag doses resulting in exposures substantially higher than the AUC observed in humans at the recommended dose, spontaneous abortions, total litter losses, decreased body weight in pups, and increased pup mortality were observed. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential risk to the fetus.


Interactions

Adagrasib: (Major) When initiating avatrombopag in patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) on adagrasib, reduce the initial avatrombopag dosing frequency to 3 times weekly. In patients starting adagrasib while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may increase avatrombopag exposure and risk for toxicity. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; adagrasib is a dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Barbiturates: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Bosentan: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with bosentan. In patients starting bosentan while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a dual moderate CYP2C9 and CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Enzalutamide: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with enzalutamide. In patients starting enzalutamide while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Fluconazole: (Major) When initiating avatrombopag in patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) on fluconazole, reduce the initial avatrombopag dosing frequency to 3 times weekly. In patients starting fluconazole while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may increase avatrombopag exposure and risk for toxicity. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; fluconazole is a dual moderate CYP2C9 and CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased avatrombopag overall exposure by 2.16-fold.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with fosphenytoin. In patients starting fosphenytoin while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Methohexital: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) When initiating avatrombopag in patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) on mifepristone, reduce the initial avatrombopag dosing frequency to 3 times weekly. In patients starting mifepristone while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may increase avatrombopag exposure and risk for toxicity. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; mifepristone is a dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
PENTobarbital: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Phenytoin: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with phenytoin. In patients starting phenytoin while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Primidone: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
rifAMPin: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with rifampin. In patients starting rifampin while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Rifapentine: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with rifapentine. In patients starting rifapentine while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Secobarbital: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with St. John's Wort. In patients starting St. John's Wort while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.


Adverse Reaction
thromboembolism, thrombosis


Thrombotic and thromboembolic complications, including portal vein thrombosis (0.2%) and arterial or venous thromboembolism (7%), were reported in adults receiving avatrombopag in clinical trials.


abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting


Abdominal pain and nausea were each reported in 7% of adults receiving avatrombopag in clinical trials. Oropharyngeal pain was reported in 13% of pediatric subjects. Serious vomiting, requiring treatment discontinuation, occurred in 1 pediatric subject.


anemia, arthralgia, fatigue, fever, headache, myalgia


Headache (6% to 31%), fatigue (4% to 28%), arthralgia (13%), and fever (10%, adults; 17%, pediatrics) were reported in subjects receiving avatrombopag in clinical trials. Serious headache, requiring treatment discontinuation, occurred in 2 adults and 1 pediatric subject. Anemia, fever, and myalgia were reported in 1 adult with chronic liver disease receiving avatrombopag 60 mg, leading to treatment discontinuation.


peripheral edema


Peripheral edema was reported in 3% of adults receiving avatrombopag in clinical trials.


hyponatremia


Serious hyponatremia was reported in 2 adults (0.7%) receiving avatrombopag in clinical trials.


bleeding, epistaxis, petechiae


Contusion (26%), epistaxis (19%), gingival bleeding (13%), and petechiae (11%) were reported in adults receiving avatrombopag in clinical trials.


cough, infection, pharyngitis


Upper respiratory tract infection (15%) and naso-pharyngitis (10%) were reported in adults receiving avatrombopag in clinical trials. Viral infection (20%), including upper respiratory infection, COVID-19, parainfluenza virus, and rhinovirus infection, naso-pharyngitis (20%), and cough (17%) were reported in pediatric subjects.


erythema, glossitis, pruritus, rash


Hypersensitivity reactions, including pruritus, rash, choking sensation, erythema, pharyngeal edema, macular rash, facial swelling, and swollen tongue (glossitis), have been reported with postmarketing use of avatrombopag.


leukocytosis, thrombocytosis


Leukocytosis, requiring treatment discontinuation, and thrombocytosis were each reported in 1 pediatric subject receiving avatrombopag in clinical trials.


Description

Avatrombopag is an oral thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic liver disease scheduled to undergo a medical or dental procedure or with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) who have had an insufficient response to previous treatment. TPO agonists have been associated with thrombotic and thromboembolic complications. Avatrombopag should not be administered to patients with either condition in an attempt to normalize platelet counts. Avatrombopag was FDA-approved in 2018.

Mechanism Of Action

Avatrombopag is a thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor agonist that stimulates proliferation and differentiation of megakaryocytes from bone marrow progenitor cells resulting in an increased production of platelets. Avatrombopag does not compete with TPO for binding to the TPO receptor and has an additive effect with TPO on platelet production.

Pharmacokinetics

Avatrombopag is administered orally. It is more than 96% bound to human plasma proteins. Estimated mean apparent Vd is 180 L. Mean plasma elimination half-life is approximately 19 hours, with a mean apparent clearance of 6.9 L/hour. Avatrombopag is primarily metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. The majority of the dose (88%) is excreted in feces, with 34% excreted as unchanged avatrombopag. Only 6% of the administered dose was recovered in urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, OAT3, BCRP
Avatrombopag is primarily metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 and is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Avatrombopag is a weak inducer of CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 and inhibits the organic anion transporting peptide (OAT) 3 and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). In a pharmacogenomic analysis, CYP2C9 intermediate and poor metabolizers had approximately 1.4-fold and 2-fold higher avatrombopag exposure, respectively, compared to normal metabolizers.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Tablet
Avatrombopag produces dose- and exposure-dependent increases in platelet counts. The onset of platelet count increase occurs within 3 to 5 days of the start of treatment, with a peak effect seen after 10 to 13 days. Post-treatment, platelet counts gradually decrease and return to near baseline values. Tmax is 5 to 6 hours post-dose. The variability of avatrombopag exposure is reduced by 40% to 60% when administered with food. Tmax is delayed by up to 2 hours when avatrombopag is administered with a low- or high-fat meal (median Tmax range: 5 to 8 hours) compared to the fasted state. Exposure (AUC and Cmax) is not affected by food.
 
Sprinkle capsule
The relative bioavailability of the avatrombopag Sprinkle capsule compared to the avatrombopag tablet has not been formally studied. However, in a study using a prototype Sprinkle capsule, avatrombopag exposure was higher under fed conditions. The prototype demonstrated a 22% higher geometric mean Cmax and a 38% higher geometric mean AUC compared to the avatrombopag tablet, with both formulations administered to healthy adults in the fed state. Additionally, administration of the prototype Sprinkle capsule in the fed state resulted in approximately a 19% and 32% increase in geometric mean Cmax and AUC, respectively, compared to the fasted state. Between-subject variability for both AUC and Cmax was reduced under fed conditions.

Hepatic Impairment

Hepatic impairment (Child-Turcotte-Pugh grade A, B, and C, or Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score 4 to 23) did not have any clinically significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of avatrombopag. Pharmacokinetics were similar in healthy subjects and those with chronic liver disease.

Renal Impairment

Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or more) did not have any clinically significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of avatrombopag. The effect of severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute), including patients requiring hemodialysis, on the pharmacokinetics of avatrombopag is unknown.

Pediatrics

Age (1 year and older) did not have any clinically significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of avatrombopag overall. However, pediatric patients 1 to 5 years who received 10 mg Sprinkle capsules daily had a 34% higher Cmax and 23% higher AUC compared to adults who received 20 mg tablets daily.

Geriatric

Age (18 to 86 years) did not have any clinically significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of avatrombopag.

Gender Differences

Gender did not have any clinically significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of avatrombopag.

Ethnic Differences

Ethnicity (i.e., Whites, African Americans, East Asians) did not have any clinically significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of avatrombopag.

Obesity

Lower body weight was associated with higher avatrombopag Cmax and AUC after the proposed starting dose in patients 6 years and older weighing 16.3 to 175 kg.

Other

CYP2C9 Intermediate and Poor Metabolizers
In a pharmacogenomic analysis, CYP2C9 intermediate and poor metabolizers had approximately 1.4-fold and 2-fold higher avatrombopag exposure, respectively, compared to normal metabolizers.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Select the recommended product (tablets or Sprinkle capsules) based on the indication and patient's age.
Tablets and Sprinkle capsules are not substitutable on a mg-to-mg basis.
The mixture prepared from the granules in the Sprinkle capsule is more bioavailable than the tablets. There is no experience from clinical trials in switching between dosing with the granules and the tablet. If the formulation is switched, monitor platelet counts weekly until stable platelet counts are obtained and adjust dosing as needed before resuming monthly monitoring.
Missed dose: In the event of a missed dose, take the next dose as soon as possible. Do not take 2 doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose. Take the next dose at the usual scheduled time.


Oral Solid Formulations


Administer with food.
 
Sprinkle capsules
Open the capsules and sprinkle the granules onto a small amount of a soft food or liquid in a spoon or cup.
Do not swallow the capsules whole. Do not chew or crush the granules.
Use the entire contents of the capsules to achieve the dose.
The following soft foods and liquids are suitable:
Soft foods: applesauce; strawberry jelly; yogurt (plain)
Liquids: milk (whole or skim); orange juice; pediatric electrolyte solution (unflavored); water
Mix the granules into the soft food or liquid; the granules will not dissolve.
Consume the mixture immediately after preparation; it should not be saved for future use.
Rinse the spoon or cup with the soft food or liquid to ensure that the full dose is administered.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

60 mg/day PO in chronic liver disease and 40 mg/day PO in chronic immune thrombocytopenia.

Geriatric

60 mg/day PO in chronic liver disease and 40 mg/day PO in chronic immune thrombocytopenia.

Adolescents

40 mg/day PO.

Children

6 to 12 years: 40 mg/day PO.
1 to 5 years: 20 mg/day PO.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

DOPTELET 20mg Tablet

Doptelet Sprinkle 10mg Granules

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier