=== Olodaterol (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3872)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Olodaterol is an orally inhaled long-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist (LABA) indicated for the maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

Routes: inhalation; Common adult doses: 5 mcg/day olodaterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 2 inhalations/day of Striverdi Respimat).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthma-related death, bronchospasm, wheezing, arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, qt prolongation, st-t wave changes, arthralgia, back pain, cough, fever, infection, pharyngitis

In an Overdose: High doses or overdosage of olodaterol can lead to clinically significant QT prolongation, which can produce ventricular arrhythmias.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Currently marketed olodaterol products are not FDA-approved for the treatment of asthma.

Brand Names
  - Striverdi Respimat

Dosage Forms
  - Striverdi Respimat 2.5mcg/actuation Inhalation Solution

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation aerosol)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mcg (2 actuations of 2.5 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth once daily. Max: 5 mcg/day (2 actuations/day).
    Heading
    For the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (e.g., chronic bronchitis or emphysema)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Currently marketed olodaterol products are not FDA-approved for the treatment of asthma. All long-acting beta agonists (LABAs) are contraindicated for monotherapy treatment of asthma and, in patients with asthma, must be used with an asthma controller medication (i.e., inhaled corticosteroid).
Do not use olodaterol as a reliever therapy for acute bronchospasm. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled short-acting beta agonist (SABA). Increasing use of inhaled SABAs is one marker of deteriorating COPD. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen. Olodaterol should not be initiated in people with acutely deteriorating COPD, which may be a life-threatening condition. Olodaterol has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD. The use of olodaterol in this setting is inappropriate.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Do not use olodaterol in combination with another long-acting beta agonist (LABA) due to the risk for overdose. Do not exceed the maximum recommended olodaterol daily dosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs.
    Headline
    cardiac arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, hypertension, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy
    General Information
    Olodaterol, like other long-acting beta2-agonists and sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency (coronary artery disease), hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Olodaterol can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, and cardiac arrhythmias, such as supraventricular tachycardia and extrasystoles. If such effects occur, olodaterol may need to be discontinued.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, seizure disorder
    General Information
    Olodaterol should be used cautiously in patients with hyperthyroidism (thyrotoxicosis), diabetes mellitus, history of seizure disorder, or other unusual responsiveness to other sympathomimetic amines. Beta-agonists may cause transient hyperglycemia. Doses of the related beta2-agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis.
    Headline
    labor, pregnancy
    General Information
    Olodaterol may be used during pregnancy. Although olodaterol is not indicated for the treatment of asthma, data from large studies of pregnant individuals with asthma have not identified a relationship between the use of inhaled beta-2 agonists and adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Asthma guidelines recommend long-acting beta agonists (LABAs), in combination with inhaled corticosteroids, as one of the preferred treatment options for the long-term control of moderate persistent asthma during pregnancy. While specific safety data on COPD populations during pregnancy is limited compared to asthma data, usually LABA therapy is maintained for COPD during pregnancy. While less data are available for LABAs vs. short-acting beta agonists (SABAs), most inhaled beta-2 agonists are considered acceptable for use during pregnancy because of low bioavailability and low maternal serum concentrations after use. There are no adequate and well-controlled human studies assessing the effects of olodaterol during labor and delivery. Because beta-2 agonists may interfere with uterine contractility, olodaterol use during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risks.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Olodaterol is compatible with breast-feeding due to low oral bioavailability and low maternal serum concentrations after inhaled use. These criteria significantly limit the amount of systemic olodaterol exposure in the breastfed child. Asthma guidelines recommend long-acting beta-2 agonists (LABAs) in combination with inhaled corticosteroids as a preferred treatment option during lactation. Of note, olodaterol is only FDA-approved for COPD. There are no data on the presence of olodaterol in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk product. Olodaterol and its metabolites are present in the milk of lactating rats.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Olodaterol may be used during pregnancy. Although olodaterol is not indicated for the treatment of asthma, data from large studies of pregnant individuals with asthma have not identified a relationship between the use of inhaled beta-2 agonists and adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Asthma guidelines recommend long-acting beta agonists (LABAs), in combination with inhaled corticosteroids, as one of the preferred treatment options for the long-term control of moderate persistent asthma during pregnancy. While specific safety data on COPD populations during pregnancy is limited compared to asthma data, usually LABA therapy is maintained for COPD during pregnancy. While less data are available for LABAs vs. short-acting beta agonists (SABAs), most inhaled beta-2 agonists are considered acceptable for use during pregnancy because of low bioavailability and low maternal serum concentrations after use. There are no adequate and well-controlled human studies assessing the effects of olodaterol during labor and delivery. Because beta-2 agonists may interfere with uterine contractility, olodaterol use during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risks.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Atomoxetine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Additive effects and increased toxicity might be observed when using cocaine with beta-agonists, which are sympathomimetic agents. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive adrenergic stimulation and side effects, such as nervousness, insomnia, palpitations, or adverse cardiovascular effects.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in olodaterol-related adverse effects, including increased heart rate and QT prolongation, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase olodaterol exposure. No dose adjustment of olodaterol is necessary. In a drug interaction study using the strong dual CYP and P-gp inhibitor ketoconazole, a 1.7-fold increase of olodaterol inhalation maximum plasma concentrations and AUC was observed. No dose adjustment is necessary. Olodaterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in olodaterol-related adverse effects, including increased heart rate and QT prolongation, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase olodaterol exposure. No dose adjustment of olodaterol is necessary. In a drug interaction study using the strong dual CYP and P-gp inhibitor ketoconazole, a 1.7-fold increase of olodaterol inhalation maximum plasma concentrations and AUC was observed. No dose adjustment is necessary. Olodaterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Linezolid may enhance the hypertensive effect of beta-agonists. Closely monitor for increased blood pressure during coadministration. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic agents, such as the beta-agonists.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Beta-agonists, such as olodaterol, may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation. Beta-agonists should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QT interval because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with olodaterol include ritonavir.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Methacholine: (Major) Discontinue use of olodaterol 48 hours before a methacholine challenge test. Beta-agonists inhibit the airway response to methacholine.
metOLazone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Beta-agonists, such as olodaterol, may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation. Beta-agonists should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QT interval because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with olodaterol include ritonavir.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Procarbazine: (Major) Procarbazine has MAOI activity and the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. Although no data are available, procarbazine may interact similarly. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-agonists are administered within two weeks of stopping the MAOI.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using prescription beta-agonists for the treatment of asthma should generally avoid the concurrent use of racepinephrine inhalation since additive cardiovascular and nervous system adverse effects are possible, some which may be undesirable.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetic agents was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and respiratory adrenergic agents (e.g., the beta-agonists). Although sympathomimetic agents are contraindicated for use with traditional non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. However, the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. At least one case of hypertension occurred in a patient with previous episodes of high blood pressure who was receiving albuterol and selegiline, a selective MAOI related to rasagiline, concurrently. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-2 agonists are administered during or within 2 weeks of use of an MAOI.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation, ribociclib and long-acting beta-agonists should be used together cautiously. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses, when associated with hypokalemia, or when used with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval like ribociclib. This risk may be more clinically significant with long-acting beta-agonists such as olodaterol as compared to short-acting beta-agonists.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation, ribociclib and long-acting beta-agonists should be used together cautiously. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses, when associated with hypokalemia, or when used with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval like ribociclib. This risk may be more clinically significant with long-acting beta-agonists such as olodaterol as compared to short-acting beta-agonists.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Beta-agonists, such as olodaterol, may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation. Beta-agonists should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QT interval because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with olodaterol include ritonavir.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, ((e.g., theophylline and aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated. (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, (e.g., theophylline, aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    asthma-related death, bronchospasm, wheezing
    General Information
    An increase in the need for rescue inhaler use and/or worsening wheezing or bronchospasm may occur during therapy with olodaterol; these are symptoms of a deterioration of the underlying respiratory condition, a potentially life-threatening condition. In clinical trials of olodaterol, COPD exacerbation was one of the most common serious adverse reactions. Advise patients not to exceed recommended doses of this medicine, but instead, seek immediate medical attention if such symptoms occur. Data are not available to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased during LABA therapy. Long-acting beta-2 agonists (LABAs) have been associated with severe exacerbations and asthma-related death when used as monotherapy in patients with asthma. When LABAs are used in fixed-dose combination with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), data from large clinical trials do not show a significant increase in the risk of serious asthma-related events (hospitalizations, intubations, death) compared with ICS alone. The use of a LABA as asthma monotherapy, without an ICS, is associated with an increased risk of asthma-related death. Available data from controlled clinical trials also suggest that use of LABA as monotherapy increases the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. These findings are considered a class effect of LABA monotherapy. In most cases, serious acute respiratory events have occurred in patients with severe asthma and/or in patients in whom asthma has been acutely deteriorating, but such events have also occurred in patients with less severe asthma. These findings pertain only to patients who have asthma.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthma-related death
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, QT prolongation, ST-T wave changes
    General Information
    Olodaterol can produce clinically significant cardiovascular effects in some patients, as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of olodaterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes such as ST-T wave changes (e.g., flattening of the T wave, ST segment depression, and QT prolongation); however, the clinical significance of this at usual doses is unknown. Atrial fibrillation has been reported in clinical trials of olodaterol. High doses or overdosage of olodaterol can lead to clinically significant QT prolongation, which can produce ventricular arrhythmias. Beta-agonist-induced hypokalemia may increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmia exacerbation in predisposed patients. As with other beta-2 agonists, a number of metabolic disturbances can develop including hyperglycemia and hypokalemia. Clinically notable decreases in serum potassium or changes in blood glucose were infrequent during clinical studies with long-term administration of olodaterol with the rates similar to those for placebo controls. Olodaterol has not been investigated in patients whose diabetes mellitus is not well controlled.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ST-T wave changes
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, cough, fever, infection, pharyngitis
    General Information
    In 48-week trials of patients with COPD, the following adverse effects occurred more frequently in olodaterol inhalation recipients compared to placebo: naso-pharyngitis (11.3%), upper respiratory tract infection (8.2%), bronchitis (4.7%), urinary tract infection (2.5%), cough (4.2%), back pain (3.5%), and arthralgia (2.1%). In clinical trials of olodaterol, pneumonia and pyrexia (fever) were each reported in more than 2% of subjects receiving olodaterol and at incidences higher than with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness
    General Information
    In 48-week trials of patients with COPD, dizziness was reported in 2.3% of patients receiving olodaterol compared with 2.1% of patients on placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rash
    General Information
    In the 48-week trials of COPD subjects, rash was reported in 2.2% of adults receiving olodaterol compared with 1.1% of patients receiving placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea
    General Information
    Diarrhea (2.9%) and constipation (more than 2%) have been reported in subjects receiving olodaterol at incidences greater than with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    new primary malignancy
    General Information
    Lung cancers (i.e., new primary malignancy) were reported in 0.7%, 0.3%, and 0.2% patients who received olodaterol 10 mcg, 5 mcg, and placebo, respectively. An association with olodaterol is not established, and may be more reflective of the epidemiologic risks of the patients using the medication.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Olodaterol is an orally inhaled long-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist (LABA) indicated for the maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD guidelines recommend a bronchodilator as initial therapy for individuals with COPD in Group A; a long-acting bronchodilator, such as a LABA or long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), is preferred except in individuals with very occasional breathlessness. In individuals with stable COPD, LAMAs have a greater effect on exacerbation reduction than LABAs and decrease hospitalizations. In individuals in Group B and Group E, guidelines recommend initial therapy with a LABA plus LAMA combination. Olodaterol is not indicated to treat acute deterioration of COPD or for the treatment of asthma. Olodaterol was FDA-approved in July 2014.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Olodaterol is a long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonist (LABA). Beta-2 receptors are present in large numbers in the lungs and are located on bronchiolar smooth muscle. Stimulation of beta-2 receptors in the lung causes relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, which produces bronchodilation and a resultant increase in bronchial airflow. These effects are believed to be mediated, in part, by increased activity of adenyl cyclase, an intracellular enzyme responsible for the formation of cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Inhalation Route
    Description
    Olodaterol reaches maximum plasma concentrations generally within 10 to 20 minutes following drug inhalation. In healthy volunteers, the absolute bioavailability of olodaterol following inhalation was estimated to be approximately 30%, whereas the absolute bioavailability was below 1% when given as an oral solution. Thus, the systemic availability of olodaterol after inhalation is mainly determined by lung absorption, while any swallowed portion of the dose only negligibly contributes to systemic exposure.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Differences in Cmax, AUC, and protein binding of olodaterol were not apparent between mild and moderate hepatically impaired subjects and their healthy adult controls. A study in subjects with severe hepatic impairment was not performed.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Olodaterol levels were increased by approximately 40% in subjects with severe renal impairment. A study in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment was not performed.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    There was no effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of olodaterol.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    There was no effect of gender on the pharmacokinetics of olodaterol.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    There was no effect of weight (BMI) on the pharmacokinetics of olodaterol.
  Text
  Olodaterol is administered by oral inhalation. Linear pharmacokinetics are observed for olodaterol. Steady-state of olodaterol was achieved after 8 days of repeated once-daily inhalation, and the extent of exposure was increased up to 1.8-fold as compared to a single dose. Olodaterol exhibits multi-compartmental disposition kinetics after inhalation as well as after IV administration. Olodaterol is extensively distributed into tissue; the volume of distribution is 1110 L. Plasma protein binding is concentration independent and is approximately 60%.
 
Olodaterol is substantially metabolized by direct glucuronidation and by O-demethylation at the methoxy moiety followed by conjugation. Of the six metabolites identified, only the unconjugated demethylation product binds to beta-2 receptors. This metabolite, however, is undetectable in plasma after chronic inhalation of the recommended therapeutic dose. Total clearance of olodaterol in healthy volunteers is 872 ml/min, and renal clearance is 173 ml/min. The terminal half-life following IV administration and inhalation in contrast is 22 hours and 45 hours, respectively, indicating that the latter is determined by absorption rather than by elimination processes. The effective half-life is 7.5 hours. Following IV administration of [14C]-labeled olodaterol, 38% of the radioactive dose was recovered in the urine and 53% was recovered in feces. The amount of unchanged olodaterol recovered in the urine after IV administration was 19%. Following oral administration, only 9% of olodaterol and/or its metabolites was recovered in urine, while the major portion was recovered in feces (84%). More than 90% of the dose was excreted within 6 and 5 days following IV and oral administration, respectively. Following inhalation, excretion of unchanged olodaterol in urine within the dosing interval in healthy volunteers at steady state accounted for 5% to 7% of the dose.
 
Affected Cytochrome P450 (CYP 450) enzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C9, CYP2C8, CYP3A4, UGT2B7, UGT1A1, UGT1A7, and UGT1A9
Olodaterol is substantially metabolized by direct glucuronidation and by O-demethylation at the methoxy moiety followed by conjugation. Cytochrome P450 isozymes CYP2C9 and CYP2C8, with negligible contribution of CYP3A4, are involved in the O-demethylation of olodaterol, while uridine diphosphate glycosyl transferase isoforms UGT2B7, UGT1A1, 1A7, and 1A9 were shown to be involved in the formation of olodaterol glucuronides. However, olodaterol has not been shown to induce or inhibit any CYP enzymes or drug transporters.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Inhalation Administration
      Description
      Olodaterol metered-dose inhaler (MDI) (e.g., Striverdi Respimat inhaler 2.5 mcg per actuation)
Instruct patient on proper inhalation technique according to product directions. See "Instructions for Use".
Administer once daily at about the same time each day. The usual dose is 2 actuations per day.
Prior to first use, insert the cartridge into the inhaler and prime by actuating the inhaler toward the ground until an aerosol cloud is visible and then repeating the process 3 more times. The unit is then considered primed and ready for use. If the inhaler is not used for more than 3 days, actuate the inhaler once to prepare the inhaler for use. If not used for more than 21 days, actuate the inhaler until an aerosol cloud is visible and then repeat the process 3 more times.
Inhalation administration:
Hold the inhaler upright with the yellow cap closed, so as to not accidentally release a dose of medicine. Turn the clear base in the direction of the white arrows on the label until it clicks (half a turn). Then, flip the yellow cap until it snaps fully open.
Have patient breathe out slowly and fully, and then close their lips around the end of the mouthpiece without covering the air vents. Point the inhaler to the back of the throat.
While the patient takes in a slow, deep breath through the mouth, press the dose release button and continue to have the patient breathe in slowly for as long as the patient can. The patient should hold the breath for 10 seconds or for as long as comfortable, then slowly exhale.
Repeat these steps for the next inhalation.
Close the yellow cap until it is time to use the inhaler again.
The mouthpiece, including the metal part inside the mouthpiece, should be cleaned with a damp cloth or tissue only, at least once per week; any minor discoloration in the mouthpiece does not affect the inhaler. If the outside of the inhaler gets dirty, wipe it with a damp cloth.
The inhaler contains either 60 puffs (equal to 30 doses of medicine) or 28 puffs (equal to 14 doses of medicine) after prepared for the first use. The dose indicator shows approximately how much medicine is left. When the pointer enters the red area of the scale, there is enough medicine for 7 days (30 dose product) or 3 days (14 dose product); once the dose indicator has reached the end of the scale, all puffs have been used and the inhaler locks automatically. At this point, the base cannot be turned any further.
The inhaler should be discarded 3 months after insertion of cartridge into inhaler, even if all the medicine has not been used, or when the inhaler is locked, whichever comes first.
    Name
    Inhalation Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    5 mcg/day olodaterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 2 inhalations/day of Striverdi Respimat).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    5 mcg/day olodaterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 2 inhalations/day of Striverdi Respimat).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
