=== Abacavir/lamiVUDine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3284)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Abacavir; lamivudine is a combination of two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) approved to treat human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1 tablet per day (abacavir 600 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day) PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, insomnia, malaise, migraine, paresthesias, seizures, vertigo, alopecia, erythema multiforme, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, anemia, aplastic anemia, elevated creatine kinase, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, rhabdomyolysis, thrombocytopenia, weakness, hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: HLA-B*5701-positive, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis Abacavir has been associated with serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis (some cases have been fatal); to reduce the risk, perform HLA-B*5701 testing on all patients before initiating treatment. Abacavir is... Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

ABACAVIR/LAMIVUDINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Epzicom

Indication Specific Dosing

General Dosing Information
Screen patients for the HLA-B*5701 allele before initiating an abacavir-containing regimen to assess the risk of hypersensitivity reaction. HLA-B*5701-positive patients should not be prescribed abacavir.
 
Initiation of therapy for HIV treatment
For adults, initiation of treatment immediately (or as soon as possible) after HIV diagnosis is recommended in all patients to reduce the risk of disease progression and to prevent the transmission of HIV, including perinatal transmission and transmission to sexual partners.
Starting antiretroviral therapy early is particularly important for patients with AIDS-defining conditions, those with acute or recent HIV infection, and individuals who are pregnant; delaying therapy in these subpopulations has been associated with high risks of morbidity, mortality, and HIV transmission.
For patients receiving an HIV diagnosis while hospitalized, it is recommended to initiate treatment during hospitalization whenever possible. Further, ensure a sufficient supply of medication (e.g., at least 2 to 4 weeks) is available to cover until the outpatient clinic appointment.
For elite controllers (i.e., patients who maintain viral loads below the level of quantification for years without treatment), antiretroviral therapy is still recommended. If deferred, closely monitor these patients as some may experience CD4 count decline, loss of viral control, or HIV-related complications.
Prior to initiating treatment, obtain baseline plasma HIV RNA (viral load) and CD4 count; results do not need to be available before starting therapy.
Antiretroviral drug-resistance testing:
Genotypic drug-resistance testing is recommended prior to initiation of therapy and prior to changing therapy for treatment failure.
Standard genotypic drug-resistance testing in treatment-naive people should focus on testing for mutations in reverse transcriptase (RT) and protease (PR) genes.
Testing for mutations in the integrase gene should also be performed if integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) resistance is a concern (i.e., prior exposure to INSTI for pre-exposure prophylaxis, post-exposure prophylaxis, or treatment).
For patients who previously received long-acting cabotegravir or cabotegravir; rilpivirine, resistance testing (including INSTI genotypic testing) should be conducted regardless of the time since the last dose as INSTI and NNRTI mutations may emerge months after the last dose.
Phenotypic resistance testing may be used in conjunction with the genotypic test for patients with known or suspected complex drug-resistance mutation patterns.
HIV-1 proviral DNA resistance testing is available for use in patients with HIV RNA concentrations below the limits of detection or with low-level viremia (i.e., less than 1,000 copies/mL), where genotypic testing is unlikely to be successful; however, the clinical utility of this assay has not been fully determined.
It is not necessary to delay treatment until resistance test results are available; however, subsequent modifications to the treatment regimen should be made, if needed, once the test results are available.
Pediatric guidelines are also available.
 
Place in therapy for HIV treatment
Abacavir; lamivudine is an alternative 2-NRTI backbone for HLA-B*5701 negative pregnant patients and patients who are trying to conceive who do not have hepatitis B virus (HBV) coinfection.
For non-pregnant patients, abacavir; lamivudine is an alternative 2-NRTI backbone for use in certain situations, except in individuals:
who are HLA-B*5701 positive
with HBV coinfection (unless tenofovir alafenamide, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, or entecavir is used concurrently)
For acute HIV infections, consider selecting an alternative regimen unless the results of HLA-B*5701 testing are already known.
Pediatric guidelines are also available.


For the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in combination with other antiretroviral agents

Oral dosage
Adults


1 tablet (abacavir 600 mg; lamivudine 300 mg) PO once daily.


Children and Adolescents weighing 25 kg or more



1 tablet (abacavir 600 mg; lamivudine 300 mg) PO once daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

HLA-B*5701-positive, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis


Abacavir has been associated with serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis (some cases have been fatal); to reduce the risk, perform HLA-B*5701 testing on all patients before initiating treatment. Abacavir is contraindicated in any HLA-B*5701-positive patient; clearly record the positive status as an abacavir allergy in the patients' medical record. According to the manufacturer, the estimated incidence of hypersensitivity to abacavir was 8% when HLA-B*5701 screening was not performed; the incidence was 1% when HLA-B*5701-positive patients were excluded. Racial background may help identify those at higher risk for carrying the gene, as in the United States approximately 8% of Caucasian patients, 2.5% of Black patients, and 1% of Asian patients are carriers. Regardless of HLA-B*5701 status, immediately discontinue treatment in patients developing or with suspected signs or symptoms of abacavir hypersensitivity, including those presenting with 2 or more of the following: fever, rash, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain), constitutional symptoms (generalized malaise, fatigue, achiness), or respiratory symptoms (dyspnea, cough, pharyngitis). Other potential signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity include: lethargy, headache, myolysis, edema, localized infiltrates on chest x-ray, arthralgia, paresthesia, lymphadenopathy, conjunctivitis, oral ulceration, elevated liver function tests, creatine phosphokinase, creatinine, and lymphopenia. Permanently discontinue abacavir if the clinical presentation of an acute illness cannot be clearly differentiated from a hypersensitivity reaction. NEVER reinitiate an abacavir containing product in a patient who experiences a hypersensitivity reaction as more severe symptoms will recur within hours of administration and may include life-threatening hypotension and death. Severe or fatal hypersensitivity reactions may also occur within hours after abacavir reintroduction in patients without an identified history of hypersensitivity, but who abruptly discontinued abacavir for reasons unrelated to symptoms of hypersensitivity (e.g., interruption in drug supply or discontinuation while treating other medical conditions). In some cases, symptoms consistent with hypersensitivity may have been present before abacavir was discontinued, but may have been attributed to other medical conditions (e.g., acute onset respiratory diseases, gastroenteritis, or reactions to other medications). In a minority of cases, hypersensitivity reactions occurred days to weeks after abacavir reintroduction. If abacavir has been discontinued for reasons other than symptoms of hypersensitivity and if reinitiation is being considered, re-evaluate the reason for discontinuation and ensure that the patient did not have any suspected symptoms of hypersensitivity. If hypersensitivity symptoms are suspected upon review or if hypersensitivity cannot be ruled out, do not reinitiate abacavir. If symptoms consistent with hypersensitivity are not identified and the patient is HLA-B*5701-negative, undertake reintroduction with caution. If HLA-B*5701 status is unknown, screening should occur prior to restarting therapy. Report all hypersensitivity reactions to the FDA MedWatch program (800-FDA-1088).


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Abacavir; lamivudine is contraindicated for use in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, including those with hepatic failure. A dose reduction of the abacavir component is required for patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A). However, because this is a fixed dose combination product, the abacavir dose cannot be adjusted; therefore, the use of abacavir; lamivudine should be avoided in patients with mild hepatic impairment.


hepatitis B exacerbation


Severe acute hepatitis B exacerbation has been reported in patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HIV coinfection who have discontinued use of lamivudine, and may occur with discontinuation of abacavir; lamivudine. Close monitoring, both clinical and laboratory, is recommended for several months after stopping treatment with abacavir; lamivudine. If appropriate, resumption of anti-hepatitis B treatment may be required.


General Information

During baseline evaluation of people with HIV, discuss risk reduction measures and the need for status disclosure to sexual or needle-sharing partners, especially with untreated patients who are still at high risk of HIV transmission. Include the importance of adherence to therapy to achieve and maintain a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL. Maintaining a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL, including any measurable value below this threshold, with antiretroviral therapy prevents sexual transmission of HIV to their partners. Patients may recognize this concept as Undetectable = Untransmittable or U=U. Instruct patients to achieve sustained viral suppression (i.e., 2 recorded measurements of plasma viral loads that are below the limits of detection and taken at least 3 months apart) before attempting to conceive a child in order to maximize their health, prevent HIV sexual transmission, and minimize the risk of HIV transmission to the infant once conception occurs. For partners with different HIV status when the person with HIV is on antiretroviral therapy and has achieved sustained viral suppression, sexual intercourse without a condom allows conception without sexual HIV transmission to the person without HIV; expert consultation is recommended. If the partner with HIV has not been able to achieve viral suppression, has an unknown viral suppression status, or has the potential for inconsistent adherence during the periconception period, the use of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) by the partner without HIV is an option to reduce the risk of sexual HIV acquisition.
 
Testing for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection resistance is recommended in all antiretroviral treatment-naive patients at the time of HIV diagnosis, regardless of whether treatment will be initiated. Additionally, perform resistance testing prior to initiating or changing any HIV treatment regimen. Transmission of drug-resistant HIV strains has been both well documented and associated with suboptimal virologic response to initial antiretroviral therapy. The prevalence of transmitted drug resistance (TDR) in high-income countries ranges from 9% to 14% and varies by country. In most TDR surveys, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) resistance and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) resistance are the most common mutation class types detected, followed by protease inhibitor (PI) and integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) resistance mutations, respectively. Resistance testing at baseline can help optimize treatment and, thus, virologic response. In the absence of therapy, resistant viruses may decline over time to less than the detection limit of standard resistance tests, but may still increase the risk of treatment failure when therapy is eventually initiated. Thus, if therapy is deferred, resistance testing should still be performed during acute HIV infection with the genotypic resistance test result kept in the patient's medical record until it becomes clinically useful. Additionally, because of the possibility of acquisition of another drug-resistant virus before treatment initiation, repeat resistance testing at the time therapy is initiated would be prudent.
 
HIV treatment guidelines recommend all patients presenting with HIV infection undergo routine screening for hepatitis C virus (HCV). For HCV seronegative individuals who are at continued high risk of acquiring hepatitis C, specifically men who have sex with men (MSM) or persons who inject drugs, additional HCV screening is recommended annually or as indicated by clinical presentation (e.g., unexplained ALT elevation), risk activities, or exposure. Similarly, the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines and the CDC preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP) guidelines recommend HCV serologic testing at baseline and every 12 months for MSM, transgender women, and persons who inject drugs. Use an FDA-approved immunoassay licensed for detection of HCV antibodies (anti-HCV); in settings where acute HCV infection is suspected or in persons with known prior infection that cleared spontaneously or after treatment, use of nucleic acid testing for HCV RNA is recommended. If hepatitis C and HIV coinfection is identified, consider treating both viral infections concurrently. It is recommended to use a fully suppressive antiretroviral therapy and an HCV regimen in all patients with coinfection, regardless of CD4 count, as lower CD4 counts do not appear to compromise the efficacy of HCV treatment. In most patients, a simplified pangenotypic HCV regimen (i.e., glecaprevir; pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir; velpatasvir) may be an appropriate choice; however, these regimens are NOT recommended for use in persons with HCV and HIV coinfection who: are treatment-experienced with HCV relapse (reinfection after successful therapy is not an exclusion); have decompensated cirrhosis; on a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate containing regimen with eGFR less than 60 mL/minute; on efavirenz, etravirine, nevirapine, or boosted protease inhibitor; have untreated chronic hepatitis B; are pregnant. Patients with HCV and HIV coinfection who meet these exclusion criteria should be treated for HCV following standard approaches as described in the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines. Treatment of HCV infection in children younger than 3 years is not usually recommended; however, treatment should be considered for all children 3 years and older with HCV and HIV coinfection who have no contraindications to treatment. Instruct patients with coinfection to avoid consuming alcohol, limit ingestion of potentially hepatotoxic medications, avoid iron supplementation in the absence of documented iron deficiency, and receive vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.
 
Patients with HIV who must undergo a solid organ transplant or allogeneic stem cell transplant should be managed by a multidisciplinary team before, during, and after the transplant to ensure comprehensive care. Prior to the transplant, ensure viral suppression is obtained, and the patient is up-to-date on their vaccinations. Review the patient's antiretroviral history, prior drug resistance results, adherence history, and the potential for drug interactions. Bictegravir- or dolutegravir-based regimens are preferred in most patients needing a transplant. Consider using tenofovir alafenamide over tenofovir disoproxil fumarate due to the lower risk of affecting renal function and bone mineral density. In general, avoid use of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, cobicistat, protease inhibitors) or CYP3A4 inducing non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (efavirenz, nevirapine, etravirine). If a change in the antiretroviral regimen is necessary, the switch should be completed several weeks before the transplant whenever possible. Renal and hepatic function may fluctuate immediately post-transplant; thus, close monitoring is recommended to ensure appropriate dosing and to avoid potential drug toxicities. Additionally, therapeutic drug monitoring of the immunosuppressive medications should be performed to guide dose adjustments. Make every effort to avoid post-transplant interruption of antiretroviral therapy. If an interruption is necessary, stop all components of the regimen simultaneously and restart treatment as soon as possible.

hepatitis B infection


Abacavir; lamivudine is not recommended for the treatment of hepatitis B infection in patients with concurrent HIV infection, unless given with an additional anti-hepatitis B virus therapy (i.e., tenofovir alafenamide, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, or entecavir); otherwise, consider an alternative antiretroviral regimen. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) variants associated with lamivudine resistance have been reported in patients with HIV who have received lamivudine-containing antiretroviral regimens in the presence of concurrent infection with HBV. Perform hepatitis A virus (HAV) and HBV screening in any patient who presents with HIV infection to assure appropriate treatment. If the HBV screening is positive, additional testing for hepatitis D virus (HDV) is recommended. Patients with HIV and HBV/HDV coinfection should be referred to an expert in the management of viral hepatitis. Patients with hepatitis B and HIV coinfection should be started on a fully suppressive antiretroviral (ARV) regimen with activity against both viruses (regardless of CD4 counts and HBV DNA concentrations). HIV treatment guidelines recommend these patients receive an ARV regimen that contains a dual NRTI backbone of tenofovir alafenamide or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with either emtricitabine or lamivudine. Both tenofovir products are active against HBV and can be used as HBV monotherapy. Emtricitabine and lamivudine are also active against HBV; however, they are not recommended for use as monotherapy due to the potential for HBV resistance. Therefore, if tenofovir cannot be used, entecavir should be given in combination with a fully suppressive ARV regimen (NOTE: entecavir should not be considered part of the ARV regimen). Avoid HBV treatment regimens that include adefovir or peginterferon alfa, as these regimens are associated with a higher incidence of toxicities and increased rates of HBV treatment failure. In rare cases, peginterferon alfa can remain a treatment option after consultation with an expert. Most patients with coinfection should continue treatment indefinitely with the goal of maximal HIV suppression and prevention of HBV relapse. If treatment must be discontinued, monitor transaminase concentrations every 6 weeks for the first 3 months, and every 3 to 6 months thereafter. Instruct patients to avoid consuming alcohol and offer vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.


renal failure, renal impairment


Abacavir, lamivudine is not recommended for use in patients with renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute), including renal failure. Because this is a fixed-dose combination, the dosage of the individual components cannot be adjusted for impaired renal function. Lamivudine exposures may be increased in patients with renal impairment (CrCl between 30 and 49 mL/minute). Monitor these patients for lamivudine-related hematologic toxicities. If new or worsening neutropenia or anemia develops, substitute the use of abacavir; lamivudine with the individual drug components to allow for a lamivudine renal dose adjustment.


coronary artery disease


When prescribing abacavir; lamivudine, consider the patient's underlying risk of coronary artery disease and take action to minimize all modifiable risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and smoking). HIV guidelines recommend consideration be given to avoiding the use of abacavir-containing regimens in patients with known high cardiovascular risk. Conflicting data have been published regarding the potential for myocardial infarction (MI) in patients receiving treatment with an abacavir-containing regimen. In several prospective, observational, epidemiological studies the use of abacavir was associated with an increased risk of MI. Patients in these studies who started abacavir for the first time had worse initial cardiovascular risk profiles than observed with the other nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) agents; therefore, it can not be ruled out that some of these results could be the result of channeling bias. The authors of these studies speculate that the underlying mechanism for increased risk of cardiovascular disease may be due to an increased propensity for subclinical atherosclerosis to manifest itself clinically as a consequence of the pro-inflammatory potential of abacavir; however, a biological mechanism to explain the potential increase in risk has not been definitely established. In contrast to these observational trials, a sponsor-conducted, pooled analysis of clinical trials showed no excess risk of MI in abacavir-treated subjects as compared with control subjects. Further, a meta-analysis of 26 randomized clinical trials conducted by the FDA failed to reveal an association between treatment with abacavir-containing regimens and development of MI (OR = 1.02; 95% CI 0.56 to 1.84).


pregnancy


Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. Guidelines recommend the use of abacavir; lamivudine as an alternative 2-NRTI backbone in HLA-B*5701 negative patients WITHOUT hepatitis B virus (HBV) coinfection who are pregnant or trying to conceive. Available data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry, which includes 1,532 first trimester exposures to abacavir and 5,833 first trimester exposures to lamivudine, have shown no difference in the risk of overall major birth defects when compared to the 2.7% background rate among pregnant people in the US. When exposure occurred in the first trimester, the prevalence of defects was 3.1% (95% CI: 2.3 to 4.1) for abacavir and 3% (95% CI: 2.6 to 3.5) for lamivudine. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA levels above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.


breast-feeding


Provide evidence-based, patient-centered counseling to support shared decision-making regarding infant feeding. Inform individuals that use of replacement feeding (i.e., formula or banked pasteurized donor human milk) eliminates the risk of HIV transmission. It is recommended to use replacement feeding for infants and children of lactating people with HIV who are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) or do not have suppressed viral load during pregnancy and/or at delivery. For those on ART who have achieved and maintained viral suppression during pregnancy (at minimum throughout the third trimester) and postpartum, the transmission risk from breast-feeding is less than 1%, but not zero. Virologically suppressed patients who choose to breast-feed should be supported in this decision. If breast-feeding is chosen, provide counseling about the importance of adherence to therapy and recommend that the infant be exclusively breast-fed for up to 6 months of age, as exclusive breast-feeding has been associated with a lower rate of HIV transmission as compared to mixed feeding (i.e., breast milk and formula). If a viral load is subsequently detected in a breast-feeding person, it is recommended to discontinue or temporarily stop breast-feeding while the viral load is rechecked, causes of viremia are assessed, adherence counseling is reinforced, and the breast-fed infant undergoes HIV nucleic acid testing (NAT). If the repeated viral load is undetectable, a shared decision should be made regarding resumption of breast-feeding. If the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is 200 copies/mL or more, most experts recommend permanent discontinuation of breast-feeding and initiation of a 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. ART(a 1- or 3-drug regimen) for the infant may also be considered if the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is quantifiable but less than 200 copies/mL; consult an expert for guidance. For breast-feeding individuals who receive a new HIV diagnosis while breast-feeding (acute HIV), it is recommended to immediately transition from breast-feeding to replacement feeding, perform an infant HIV NAT, and initiate 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. Promptly identify and treat mastitis, thrush, and cracked or bleeding nipples, as these conditions may increase the risk of HIV transmission through breast-feeding. Breast-fed infants should undergo immediate diagnostic and virologic HIV testing. Testing should continue throughout breast-feeding and up to 6 months after cessation of breast-feeding. For expert consultation, care teams may contact the Perinatal HIV Hotline (888-448-8765). Both abacavir and lamivudine are present in human breast milk. In 1 study conducted in Botswana, the mean breast milk-to-plasma drug ratio of abacavir (n = 15) was 0.85. Further, an analysis of 9 breast-feeding infants found detectable plasma drug concentrations in 1 infant. In the Swiss Mother and Child HIV Cohort nested study, abacavir was measurable in 4 breast-fed infants; the relative infant dose was 0.34%. Lamivudine was present in human breast milk during a study involving 20 breast-feeding people with HIV who were administered either 300 mg of lamivudine twice daily as a single agent (n = 10) or lamivudine 150 mg twice daily in combination with zidovudine (n = 10). The mean breast milk concentrations of lamivudine in the respective groups were similar, at 1.22 mg/L (range less than 0.5 to 6.09 mg/L) and 0.9 mg/L (range less than 0.5 to 8.2 mg/L). Other antiretroviral mediations whose passage into human breast milk have been evaluated include nevirapine, zidovudine, and nelfinavir.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. Guidelines recommend the use of abacavir; lamivudine as an alternative 2-NRTI backbone in HLA-B*5701 negative patients WITHOUT hepatitis B virus (HBV) coinfection who are pregnant or trying to conceive. Available data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry, which includes 1,532 first trimester exposures to abacavir and 5,833 first trimester exposures to lamivudine, have shown no difference in the risk of overall major birth defects when compared to the 2.7% background rate among pregnant people in the US. When exposure occurred in the first trimester, the prevalence of defects was 3.1% (95% CI: 2.3 to 4.1) for abacavir and 3% (95% CI: 2.6 to 3.5) for lamivudine. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA levels above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.


Interactions

Adefovir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Atidarsagene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Betibeglogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Bortezomib: (Minor) Monitor patients for the development of peripheral neuropathy when receiving bortezomib in combination with other drugs that can cause peripheral neuropathy like lamivudine; the risk of peripheral neuropathy may be additive.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Elivaldogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Emtricitabine: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking abacavir. Abacavir is metabolized via alcohol dehydrogenase. Alcohol decreases the elimination of abacavir causing an increase in overall exposure to abacavir. In a study involving HIV-infected men, coadministration of alcohol and abacavir resulted in a 41% increase in abacavir AUC and a 26% increase in abacavir half-life. In males, abacavir had no effect on the pharmacokinetic properties of alcohol; this interaction has not been studied in females. Abacavir has no effect on the pharmacokinetic properties of alcohol.
Etuvetidigene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV), such as etuvetidigene autotemcel. Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization and continue to hold therapy until at least 7 days after etuvetidigene autotemcel infusion; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may decrease etuvetidigene autotemcel efficacy by reducing LVV activity and interfering with gene therapy manufacturing.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Beta-1a: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Beta-1b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Gamma-1b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferons: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Lentivirus vector therapy (selected): (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown.
Lovotibeglogene autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Marnetegragene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Memantine: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Methadone: (Moderate) In a study of 11 adult HIV-infected subjects receiving methadone maintenance therapy (40 to 90 mg/day) and abacavir 600 mg twice daily (twice the current recommended dose), methadone clearance increased by 22% (6% to 42%). While this interaction will not require dosage adjustment in the majority of patients, a small number of patients may require increased doses of methadone. In addition, a significant decrease in abacavir Cmax (34%) and increase in Tmax (67%) were noted, but no changes in overall abacavir clearance or half-life were reported. The clinical significance regarding abacavir therapy is not known.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown.
Orlistat: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Peginterferon beta-1a: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion such as procainamide may compete with lamivudine for common renal tubular transport systems, thus possibly decreasing the elimination of one of the drugs. Although theoretical, careful patient monitoring of the response to lamivudine and/or procainamide is recommended to individualize dosage. In selected individuals, procainamide serum concentration monitoring may be appropriate.
Ribavirin: (Moderate) Use abacavir with ribavirin and interferon with caution and closely monitor for hepatic decompensation and anemia. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh greater than 6). Hepatic decompensation (some fatal) has occurred in HCV/HIV coinfected patients who received both ribavirin/interferon and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) therapies. (Moderate) Use lamivudine with ribavirin and interferon with caution and closely monitor for hepatic decompensation and anemia. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh greater than 6). Hepatic decompensation (some fatal) has occurred in HCV/HIV coinfected patients who received both ribavirin/interferon and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) therapies. In addition, ribavirin has been shown in cell culture to inhibit phosphorylation of lamivudine, which could lead to decreased antiretroviral activity; however, while ribavirin inhibits the phosphorylation reactions required to activate lamivudine, no evidence of a pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction has been observed.
Riociguat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in riociguat-related adverse effects like hypotension if concomitant use with abacavir is necessary. Consider a riociguat dose reduction in patients who may not tolerate the hypotensive effect of riociguat. Concomitant use of riociguat and abacavir may increase riociguat exposure although the magnitude of increase is unknown. Riociguat is a CYP1A1 substrate; abacavir may inhibit CYP1A1.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Sorbitol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lamivudine oral solution and sorbitol if possible due to sorbitol dose-dependent reduction in lamivudine exposure. An all-tablet regimen should be used when possible to avoid a potential interaction with sorbitol. Consider more frequent monitoring of viral load when treating with lamivudine oral solution. In a drug interaction study in 16 healthy adult patients, coadministration of a single 300 mg dose of lamivudine oral solution with sorbitol 3.2 g, 10.2 g, or 13.4 g resulted in dose-dependent decreases of 20%, 39%, and 44% in the AUC24 and 28%, 52%, and 55% in the Cmax of lamivudine.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of tipranavir and ritonavir with abacavir results in decreased abacavir concentrations. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, and no recommendations for abacavir dosage adjustments are available.
Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: This section discusses adverse reactions reported with the combination product. Refer to the individual monographs for abacavir or lamivudine for specific information concerning adverse events related to the individual agents.

anxiety, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, insomnia, malaise, migraine, paresthesias, seizures, vertigo


Neurologic adverse events that have been reported with treatment with abacavir; lamivudine during clinical trials include abnormal dreams (4% to 5%), anxiety (3% to 5%), depression (7%), dizziness (6%), fatigue (6% to 8%), headache including migraine (6% to 7%), insomnia (7% to 9%), malaise (6% to 8%), and vertigo (6%). Paresthesias and seizures have been reported with postmarketing use. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastritis, nausea, stomatitis


Gastrointestinal adverse events experienced by abacavir; lamivudine-treated patients during clinical trials included abdominal pain (4% to 5%), diarrhea (5% to 6%, severe 2%), gastritis (4% to 5%), and nausea (5% to 6%). Stomatitis has been reported with postmarketing use. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


alopecia, erythema multiforme, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Rash was reported by 5% of patient receiving treatment with abacavir; lamivudine during clinical trials. Other dermatologic adverse events reported with postmarketing use include alopecia, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and urticaria. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


anemia, aplastic anemia, elevated creatine kinase, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, rhabdomyolysis, thrombocytopenia, weakness


Laboratory abnormalities reported by recipients of abacavir; lamivudine during clinical trials included: elevated hepatic enzymes; elevated creatine kinase (CPK); and elevations in gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), lipase, amylase, and bilirubin. Other laboratory changes included hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, anemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia. Postmarketing cases of muscle weakness and rhabdomyolysis potentially associated with elevated CPK and cases of aplastic anemia and lymphadenopathy have been reported following treatment with abacavir; lamivudine. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


fever


Fever or pyrexia was reported in 3% to 5% of patients receiving treatment with abacavir; lamivudine during clinical trials. Fever may also be a sign of developing abacavir-hypersensitivity.


acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), arthralgia, conjunctivitis, cough, dyspnea, edema, hepatic failure, hypotension, lethargy, lymphopenia, maculopapular rash, myalgia, oral ulceration, pharyngitis, renal failure (unspecified), respiratory failure, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, vomiting, wheezing


Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, including fatal reactions, have occurred in patients receiving abacavir containing regimens. In clinical trials, the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions to abacavir was 8% when HLA-B*5701 screening was not performed; the incidence was 1% when HLA-B*5701-positive patients were excluded. Suspected Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) have been reported in patients receiving abacavir primarily in combination with medications known to be associated with SJS and TEN; because of the overlap of clinical signs and symptoms between hypersensitivity to abacavir and SJS and TEN and the possibility of multiple drug sensitivities in some patients, abacavir should be discontinued and not restarted in such cases. Signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity include fatigue, fever, malaise, skin rash, gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting, and respiratory symptoms including pharyngitis, dyspnea, or cough. Respiratory symptoms occur in approximately 20% of patients with abacavir hypersensitivity reactions. Wheezing occur infrequently during abacavir hypersensitivity reactions. Other signs and symptoms include lethargy, headache, myolysis, myalgia, arthralgia, edema, chest x-ray abnormalities, and paresthesias. Physical findings include lymphadenopathy, mucous membrane lesions (conjunctivitis and oral ulceration), and rash. The rash, if present, usually appears as a maculopapular rash or urticarial rash (urticaria) but may be variable in appearance. There have been reports of erythema multiforme. Laboratory findings include elevated hepatic enzymes, elevated creatine kinase, increased creatinine, and lymphopenia. Deaths have been reported in patients receiving abacavir who were initially diagnosed with an acute respiratory disease (pneumonia, bronchitis, or flu-like illness) who were later recognized to have had a hypersensitivity reaction to abacavir that included respiratory symptoms. A delay in diagnosis of abacavir hypersensitivity can result in abacavir being continued or reintroduced, leading to more severe hypersensitivity reactions including, life-threatening hypotension, anaphylactoid reactions, hepatic failure, renal failure (unspecified), acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), respiratory failure, and death. Symptoms usually appear within the first 6 weeks of treatment, although these reactions may occur at any time during therapy. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported upon reintroduction of abacavir therapy that has been discontinued for other medical reasons. In a minority of these patients, hypersensitivity occurred days or weeks after reintroduction of abacavir treatment. Symptoms worsen with continued therapy but often resolve upon discontinuation of the drug. Patients developing signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity should discontinue use of abacavir as soon as a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected. In patients presenting with symptoms of acute respiratory disease and other symptoms associated with hypersensitivity to abacavir, a hypersensitivity reaction should be suspected even if alternative respiratory diagnoses (i.e., pneumonia, bronchitis, pharyngitis, or flu-like illness) are possible. If the clinical presentation of an acute illness cannot be clearly differentiated from a hypersensitivity reaction, abacavir should be permanently discontinued. Patients should never be restarted on any abacavir containing product following a hypersensitivity reaction because more severe symptoms will recur within hours of administration and may include life-threatening hypotension and death. To facilitate reporting of hypersensitivity reactions and collection of information on each case, healthcare professionals should report all hypersensitivity reactions to the FDA MedWatch program at (800) FDA-1088.


hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity, lactic acidosis, pancreatitis, splenomegaly, steatosis


Lactic acidosis and severe hepatotoxicity, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs such as abacavir and lamivudine. Typically, these adverse reactions present with symptoms such as enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) and fatty liver (steatosis), even in the absence of significant elevations in liver transaminases. At risk patients may include females and patients who are obese. Prompt discontinuation of treatment is recommended if clinical or laboratory findings suggest lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity. Pancreatitis and splenomegaly have also been reported during treatment with abacavir or lamivudine.


lipodystrophy


Lipodystrophy syndrome consisting of redistribution and accumulation of body fat has been reported during postmarketing use of abacavir and lamivudine. The mechanism by which nucleoside analogues may cause body fat changes is not known. It has been suggested that nucleoside analogs may damage the mitochondria of adipocytes. An increased incidence of body fat changes is noted in those patients receiving long-term nucleoside therapy and in female patients.


hepatitis B exacerbation


There have been postmarketing reports of severe acute hepatitis B exacerbation in patients with HBV and HIV coinfection following the discontinuation of lamivudine therapy; close monitoring of clinical signs and symptoms, including laboratory monitoring, are recommended for several months following discontinuation. Typically, HBV exacerbation is associated with a return of HBV DNA and increases in ALT concentrations. Usually this exacerbation is self-limited; however, some fatalities have been reported. The casual relationship of discontinuation of lamivudine to the recurrence of HBV infection is not known. There is insufficient evidence to determine whether re-initiation of therapy alters the course of posttreatment exacerbations of hepatitis.


myocardial infarction


Abacavir treatment was linked with the development of myocardial infarction (MI) in several prospective, observational, epidemiologic trials. In contrast to these observational trials, a sponsor-conducted, pooled analysis of clinical trials showed no excess risk of MI in abacavir-treated subjects as compared with control subjects. A meta-analysis of 26 randomized clinical trials conducted by the FDA failed to reveal an association between treatment with abacavir-containing regimens and development of MI (OR = 1.02; 95% CI: 0.56 to 1.84). In light of the conflicting data, caution is advised when prescribing abacavir to patients with pre-existing coronary heart disease. Healthcare providers are encouraged to minimize a patient's modifiable risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and smoking) prior to prescribing.


autoimmune disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, immune reconstitution syndrome


Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy. During the initial phase of HIV treatment, patients whose immune system responds to abacavir; lamivudine therapy may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), cytomegalovirus (CMV), Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis (TB)), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. In addition, autoimmune disease (including Graves' disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, and polymyositis) may develop; the time to onset is variable and may occur months after treatment initiation.


peripheral neuropathy


Patients with peripheral neuropathy receiving abacavir; lamivudine can experience exacerbations during therapy due to the lamivudine component. In one case report involving a 57-year-old male with mild neuropathy, treatment with lamivudine was associated with a fatal peripheral neuropathy exacerbation. The patient had received lamivudine 300 mg daily for treatment of hepatitis. After 3 months of treatment, the patient presented with dysphonia and progressive muscle weakness. Later, the patient developed tetraparesis followed by acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation. The patient then went into sudden cardiac arrest. Treatment with lamivudine was stopped, and the neuropathy and respiratory capacity improved; however, the patient ultimately died.


Description

Abacavir; lamivudine is a combination of two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) approved to treat human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection. Double NRTI therapy is not considered highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART); thus, abacavir; lamivudine must be used in combination with other antiretroviral agents. The FDA approved package labeling contains Black Box Warnings for fatal hypersensitivity reactions associated with abacavir and exacerbations of hepatitis B associated with discontinuation of lamivudine in patients with both hepatitis B and HIV. Abacavir; lamivudine was FDA-approved in 2004.

Mechanism Of Action

Abacavir; lamivudine is active against infections caused by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Both abacavir and lamivudine are nucleoside analogs that inhibit HIV reverse transcriptase.
Abacavir: Intracellularly, abacavir is converted by cellular enzymes to the active metabolite carbovir triphosphate, an analog of deoxyguanosine-5'-triphosphate (dGTP). Carbovir triphosphate inhibits the activity of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase both by competing with the natural substrate dGTP and by its incorporation into viral DNA. The lack of a 3'-hydroxyl group in the incorporated nucleoside analog prevents the formation of the 5' to 3' phosphodiester linkage essential for DNA chain elongation thereby inhibiting viral DNA growth.
Lamivudine: Intracellularly, lamivudine is phosphorylated to produce the active 5'-triphosphate metabolite, lamivudine triphosphate (3TC-TP). The primary mode of action of 3TC-TP is inhibition of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase via viral DNA chain termination after incorporation of the nucleotide analog.
 
Pharmacodynamics
Abacavir: In cell cultures, the 50% effective concentration (EC50) of abacavir for HIV-1 and HIV-2 ranged from 70 to 5,800 nM and 24 to 490 nM, respectively.
Lamivudine: In cell cultures, EC50 values for lamivudine ranged from 3 to 15,000 nM for HIV-1 and 3 to 120 nM for HIV-2 isolates.
 
Resistance
The combination of abacavir and lamivudine has demonstrated decreased activity against viruses with certain viral mutations, including M184V/I, K65R, L74V, and Y115F. Cross-resistance between abacavir; lamivudine and other nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors has been observed in strains of HIV-1 containing multiple reverse transcriptase mutations. Cross-resistance between abacavir; lamivudine and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors or HIV protease inhibitors is unlikely because of different binding sites on reverse transcriptase and different targets enzymes.

Pharmacokinetics

Abacavir; lamivudine is administered orally.
Abacavir: Once in the systemic circulation, abacavir has an apparent volume of distribution of 0.86 +/- 0.15 L/kg, suggesting the drug distributes into extravascular space. Protein binding is approximately 50% and is independent of concentration. Based on radiolabeled studies, the drug readily distributes into erythrocytes. In humans, cytochrome P450 enzymes do not significantly metabolize abacavir. The primary routes of elimination are metabolism by alcohol dehydrogenase (to form the 5'-carboxylic acid) and glucuronyl transferase (to form the 5'-glucuronide). The metabolites have no antiviral activity. Elimination of abacavir was quantified in a mass balance study after administration of a 600-mg dose of 14C-abacavir: 83% of the radioactivity was recovered in urine, 1.2% as unchanged drug, 30% as the 5'-carboxylic acid metabolite, 36% as the 5'-glucuronide metabolite, and 15% as unidentified minor metabolites. Fecal elimination accounted for 16% of the dose. In single-dose studies, the observed elimination half-life was 1.54 +/- 0.63 hours.
Lamivudine: Once in systemic circulation, lamivudine is less than 36% bound to human plasma proteins. The apparent volume of distrubution after intravenous administration of lamivudine is 1.3 +/- 0.4 L/kg, suggesting the drug distributes into extravascular spaces. This volume of distribution is independent of dose and does not correlate with body weight. Metabolism is a minor route of elimination, with the only known metabolite, being the trans-sulfoxide metabolite (approximately 5% of an oral dose after 12 hours). The majority of a lamivudine dose (approximately 70%) is excreted unchanged in the urine by active organic cationic secretion. In most single-dose studies with plasma sampling up to 48 or 72 hours after dosing, the observed mean elimination half-life ranged from 13 to 19 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A1, CYP3A4
Data from in vitro studies show abacavir has the potential to inhibit CYP1A1 and the limited potential to inhibit CYP3A4. Lamivudine does not inhibit or induce CYP3A4. Abacavir and lamivudine do not inhibit or induce other CYP isoenzymes (e.g., CYP2C9 and CYP2D6). Similarly, abacavir and lamivudine at therapeutic drug exposures are not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of substrates of the following drug transporters: organic anion transporter polypeptide (OATP)1B1/3, breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), P-glycoprotein (P-gp), organic cation transporter (OCT)1, OCT2, OCT3 (lamivudine only), or multidrug and toxic extrusion protein (MATE)1 and MATE2-K.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

In a single-dose, 3-way crossover study in healthy volunteers, one Epzicom tablet was bioequivalent to two 300 mg abacavir tablets and two 150 mg lamivudine tablets.
Abacavir: The drug is rapidly absorbed with a bioavailability of about 83%. Administration with food does not alter the systemic exposure of abacavir (AUC), but the Cmax is decreased by approximately 24% compared to fasted conditions.
Lamivudine: Absorption is rapid, with a mean absolute bioavailability of approximately 85%. Food has no significant effect on systemic exposure of lamivudine.


Hepatic Impairment


Abacavir: Patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5 to 6) show a mean increase in abacavir half-life and AUC of 58% and 89%, respectively, after a single oral dose of 600 mg. The AUC of the metabolites are not changed by mild liver disease; however, the rates of formation and elimination of the metabolites are decreased. Abacavir pharmacokinetic parameters have not been assessed in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment.
Lamivudine: Lamivudine pharmacokinetics are not altered by hepatic dysfunction.


Renal Impairment


Abacavir: The pharmacokinetics of abacavir have not been determined in patients with renal impairment; however, renal excretion of unchanged abacavir is a minor route of elimination.
Lamivudine: Total clearance of lamivudine decreases as creatinine clearance decreases; therefore, exposure (AUC), Cmax, and half-life increase with diminishing renal function. Hemodialysis increases clearance; however, a 4-hour hemodialysis session was insufficient to significantly alter mean lamivudine exposure after a single dose. The hemodialysis extraction ratio is approximately 53% to 65%. Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and automated peritoneal dialysis have negligible effects on lamivudine clearance. After correction of dose for creatinine clearance, no additional dose modification is necessary after routine hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. It is not known if continuous (24-hour) hemodialysis can remove lamivudine. The effect of renal impairment on pharmacokinetic parameters in pediatric patients is not known.


Pediatrics

Pharmacokinetic data after administration of abacavir; lamivudine in pediatric patients are limited. In general, abacavir clearance is faster in children and slows down in adolescents and young adults to approximately the clearance noted in adults. Weight-corrected oral clearance of single-ingredient lamivudine was higher at age 2 and declined from 2 to 12 years, where values were then similar to adults. Studies in pediatric patients with clinically stable HIV have shown that once-daily dosing provides comparable exposure as twice-daily dosing for both abacavir and lamivudine.

Gender Differences

No significant or clinically relevant gender differences in the pharmacokinetics of abacavir or lamivudine have been identified based on available data.

Ethnic Differences

No significant or clinically relevant ethnic differences in the pharmacokinetics of abacavir or lamivudine have been identified based on available data.

Other

Pregnancy
Abacavir: A population pharmacokinetic analysis of 266 samples from 36 pregnant and 114 non-pregnant females, found the pharmacokinetic parameters of abacavir to be unchanged during pregnancy. Similarly, 1 pharmacokinetic study found abacavir exposure in 25 pregnant women receiving 300 mg twice daily during the third trimester to be comparable to exposures observed in postpartum women and historical controls of non-pregnant women with HIV. Abacavir crosses the placenta via passive diffusion, with drug concentrations in neonatal plasma cord samples at birth being essentially equal to those in the maternal plasma at the time of delivery.
Lamivudine: Although population pharmacokinetic modeling suggests the oral clearance of lamivudine is increased by 22% during pregnancy; limited data from 2 studies involving 36 pregnant women (16 at 36 weeks, 20 at 38 weeks gestation) found the pharmacokinetic parameters of lamivudine to be similar to those observed in non-pregnant and postpartum adults. No change in dose is indicated. In addition, placental transfer of lamivudine results in drug concentrations that are 2 times greater than maternal serum levels.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
NOTE: Screen for HLA-B*5701 before initiating treatment to reduce the risk of hypersensitivity reaction. HLA-B*5701-positive patients MUST not receive abacavir.
 
NOTE: Interruptions of therapy may be necessary for specific situations.
If an unanticipated short-term treatment interruption (i.e., less than 1 to 2 days) is necessary, it is generally recommended that all antiretroviral agents be discontinued simultaneously, especially if the interruption occurs in a pregnant patient or is because of serious toxicity.
If a short-term treatment interruption is anticipated, as in the case of elective surgery, consider the pharmacokinetic properties and food requirements of the specific antiretroviral medications. Stopping a treatment regimen containing medications with differing half-lives may result in functional monotherapy of the antiretroviral with the longest half-life and may increase the risk for resistant mutations.
Health care providers are advised to restart a complete and effective antiretroviral regimen as soon as possible after a short-term interruption of therapy.
Planned long-term treatment interruptions are not recommended due to the potential for HIV disease progression (i.e., declining CD4 counts, viral rebound, acute viral syndrome), development of minor HIV-associated manifestations or serious non-AIDS complications, development of drug resistance, increased risk of HIV transmission, and increased risk for opportunistic infections.
If therapy must be discontinued, counsel the patient on the potential risks and closely monitor for any clinical or laboratory abnormalities.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.


Oral Administration


Administer with or without food.
Administer as a whole tablet; assess pediatric patients for the ability to swallow tablets prior to administration.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

1 tablet per day (abacavir 600 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day) PO.

Geriatric

1 tablet per day (abacavir 600 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day) PO.

Adolescents

weighing 25 kg or more: 1 tablet per day (abacavir 600 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day) PO.
weighing less than 25 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

weighing 25 kg or more: 1 tablet per day (abacavir 600 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day) PO.
weighing less than 25 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Abacavir Sulfate 600mg, Lamivudine 300mg Oral tablet

TRIUMEQ 600mg-50mg-300mg Tablet

Triumeq 600mg-50mg-300mg Tablet

Triumeq PD 60mg-5mg-30mg Tablet for Suspension

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Because abacavir may require a dose adjustment in the presence of hepatic impairment, the fixed-dose combination of abacavir; lamivudine is not recommended for patients with impaired hepatic function.

Renal Impairment


CrCl 50 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
CrCl 30 to 49 mL/minute: No dosage adjustment is needed, but monitor for lamivudine-related hematologic toxicities. If new or worsening neutropenia or anemia develops, discontinue use of the fixed-dose combination product and administer the individual components to allow for a lamivudine dose adjustment.
CrCl less than 30 mL/minute: Use not recommended.


© 2026 Elsevier