=== Glasdegib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5117)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Glasdegib is an oral hedgehog pathway inhibitor.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 100 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, hypoxia, erythema, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, skin ulcer, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), sinus tachycardia, qt prolongation, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, nephrotoxicity, oliguria, renal failure (unspecified), colitis, oral ulceration

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Avoid use of glasdegib in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural... Emetic risk: Minimal/Low

Brand Names
  - Daurismo

Dosage Forms
  - Daurismo 100mg Tablet
  - DAURISMO 25mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of newly-diagnosed AML in patients who are 75 years or older or who have comorbidities that make them ineligible for intensive induction chemotherapy, in combination with low-dose cytarabine
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          100 mg orally once daily in combination with cytarabine 20 mg subcutaneously twice daily on days 1 to 10. Repeat treatment cycles every 28 days until disease progression. Continue therapy for a minimum of 6 cycles in patients who do not have unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, or permanent discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop toxicity. The median overall survival time was significantly improved in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 77) compared with low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 38) (8.3 months vs. 4.3 months; hazard ratio = 0.495; 95% CI, 0.325 to 0.752; p = 0.0004) in a multicenter, open-label, randomized, phase 2 (BRIGHT AML 1003) trial. Patients in this study were 55 years of age or older with previously untreated, newly-diagnosed AML or high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome and had at least 1 of the following criteria: aged 75 years or older, severe cardiac disease, a baseline Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 2, or a baseline serum creatinine level greater than 1.3 mg/dL.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, heart failure, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of glasdegib in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. More frequent ECG monitoring is recommended in patients with congenital long QT syndrome, congestive heart failure, electrolyte abnormalities, or those who are taking medications known to prolong the QTc interval.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use glasdegib with caution in patients with renal impairment. Renal insufficiency including renal failure has been reported with glasdegib therapy. Due to a risk of elevated glasdegib concentrations in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR, 15 to 30 mL/min), increased adverse event monitoring (e.g., QT interval prolongation) is recommended in these patients. Glasdegib has not been evaluated in patients with end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis.
    Headline
    blood donor
    General Information
    Patients must avoid being a blood donor during treatment with glasdegib and for at least 30 days following discontinuation of therapy due to the risk that this blood might be administered to a pregnant individual whose fetus must not be exposed to glasdegib.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Glasdegib is not recommended for use during pregnancy. Based on its mechanism of action and embryo-fetal toxicity studies, it may cause severe birth defects or embryo-fetal death. There are no clinical data on the use of glasdegib in human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. In animal studies, embryotoxicity, fetotoxicity, and teratogenicity occurred in rats and rabbits at exposures lower than the human exposures at the recommended dose of 100 mg/day. Teratogenic effects (e.g., craniofacial malformations, malformed limbs, paws/digits, trunk and tail, dilation of brain, malpositioned/malformed eyes, misshapen head, small tongue, absent palate, teeth and viscera, diaphragmatic hernia, edema, heart defects, rib and vertebral abnormalities, and malformed or absent structures in the appendicular skeleton) occurred when pregnant rats or rabbits received a dose resulting in approximately 0.6 times the exposure observed in humans receiving the recommended dose. Advise patients to immediately notify their healthcare provider if they become pregnant or think they might be pregnant. Report pregnancy exposures to Pfizer at 1-800-438-1985.
    Headline
    embryo-fetal toxicity, people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with glasdegib. Glasdegib may cause severe birth defects or embryo-fetal death. Verify pregnancy status within 7 days prior to initiating treatment. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking glasdegib and for at least 30 days after the last dose. It is not known if glasdegib is present in semen. Due to the potential risk of exposure through semen, counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others, who also have partners who may become or who are pregnant, to use effective contraception during glasdegib therapy and for at least 30 days after the last dose. Contraceptive precautions should include a condom in these patients, even after a vasectomy. Patients should not donate semen for at least 30 days after the last dose. The risk of infertility with glasdegib has not been studied in humans. Findings in male animals exposed to glasdegib suggest that impaired fertility is possible after glasdegib exposure. Some effects were not reversible. Advise people who can cause pregnancy in others to seek advice on fertility preservation prior to treatment with glasdegib.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Counsel patients to avoid breast-feeding during glasdegib therapy and for at least 30 days after the last dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of glasdegib or its metabolites in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Glasdegib is not recommended for use during pregnancy. Based on its mechanism of action and embryo-fetal toxicity studies, it may cause severe birth defects or embryo-fetal death. There are no clinical data on the use of glasdegib in human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. In animal studies, embryotoxicity, fetotoxicity, and teratogenicity occurred in rats and rabbits at exposures lower than the human exposures at the recommended dose of 100 mg/day. Teratogenic effects (e.g., craniofacial malformations, malformed limbs, paws/digits, trunk and tail, dilation of brain, malpositioned/malformed eyes, misshapen head, small tongue, absent palate, teeth and viscera, diaphragmatic hernia, edema, heart defects, rib and vertebral abnormalities, and malformed or absent structures in the appendicular skeleton) occurred when pregnant rats or rabbits received a dose resulting in approximately 0.6 times the exposure observed in humans receiving the recommended dose. Advise patients to immediately notify their healthcare provider if they become pregnant or think they might be pregnant. Report pregnancy exposures to Pfizer at 1-800-438-1985.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel patients to avoid breast-feeding during glasdegib therapy and for at least 30 days after the last dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of glasdegib or its metabolites in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib and glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure and increase the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is necessary, monitor for increased adverse events and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications increase the risk for QT interval prolongation. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with alfuzosin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with amisulpride due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and amobarbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided and amobarbital will be used chronically, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after amobarbital has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; amobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with clarithromycin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Anagrelide: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as glasdegib. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and apalutamide due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Apomorphine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with apomorphine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with aripiprazole due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with arsenic trioxide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Discontinue glasdegib or select an alternative drug that does not prolong the QT interval prior to starting arsenic trioxide therapy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Torsade de pointes (TdP), QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with artemether due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Artemether is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with lumefantrine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with asenapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and butalbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after butalbital has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to atazanavir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Consider an alternative to atazanavir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study. (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with atomoxetine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with glasdegib due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with bedaquiline due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Bedaquiline has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Coadministration with other QT prolonging drugs may result in additive or synergistic prolongation of the QT interval.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and bexarotene due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after bexarotene has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and bosentan due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after bosentan has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with buprenorphine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with buprenorphine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and butalbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after butalbital has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and butalbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after butalbital has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and butalbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after butalbital has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and butalbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after butalbital has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with rilpivirine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and carbamazepine due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and cenobamate due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after cenobamate has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Consider an alternative to ceritinib during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended, as well as monitoring electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that causes QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Consider an alternative to chloramphenicol during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with glasdegib due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with chlorpromazine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of glasdegib and cisapride is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride.
Citalopram: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with citalopram due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Citalopram causes dose-dependent QT interval prolongation.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with clarithromycin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with clozapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Cobicistat: (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with crizotinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; monitor with increased frequency in patients at increased risk for QT prolongation. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Crizotinib has also been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and dabrafenib due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after dabrafenib has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Darunavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to darunavir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study. (Major) Consider an alternative to darunavir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study. (Major) Consider an alternative to darunavir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with dasatinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib also has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Degarelix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with degarelix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QTc prolongation has also been reported with the use of degarelix.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with halogenated anesthetics due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with deutetrabenazine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with quinidine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Disopyramide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with disopyramide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Dofetilide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with dofetilide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with rilpivirine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with donepezil due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with donepezil due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of glasdegib and dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should not be used in combination with any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval, such as glasdegib. If coadministration cannot be avoided, use extreme caution; initiate droperidol at a low dose and increase the dose as needed to achieve the desired effect. Monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with efavirenz due to additive risk of QT prolongation and decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with QT prolongation; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer that has been associated with QTc prolongation. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A4 inducer like efavirenz is predicted to reduce the glasdegib AUC by 55%. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after efavirenz has been discontinued for 7 days.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with efavirenz due to additive risk of QT prolongation and decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with QT prolongation; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer that has been associated with QTc prolongation. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A4 inducer like efavirenz is predicted to reduce the glasdegib AUC by 55%. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after efavirenz has been discontinued for 7 days.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with efavirenz due to additive risk of QT prolongation and decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with QT prolongation; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer that has been associated with QTc prolongation. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A4 inducer like efavirenz is predicted to reduce the glasdegib AUC by 55%. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after efavirenz has been discontinued for 7 days.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and elagolix due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after elagolix has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate; elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and elagolix due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after elagolix has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate; elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with eliglustat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Consider an alternative to cobicistat during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with rilpivirine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with rilpivirine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of encorafenib with glasdegib due to the risk for decreased glasdegib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Consider an alternative to ensitrelvir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with entrectinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and enzalutamide due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
eriBULin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with eribulin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with erythromycin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Erythromycin is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Escitalopram: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with escitalopram due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Escitalopram has been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and eslicarbazepine due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after eslicarbazepine has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and etravirine due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after etravirine has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; etravirine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of glasdegib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased glasdegib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Fingolimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with fingolimod due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with flecainide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP); flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs that have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of glasdegib with fluconazole is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP).
FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with fluoxetine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Consider increased frequency of ECG monitoring if glasdegib and fluphenazine are coadministered due to the potential for additive effects on the QT interval. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with fluvoxamine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported during fluvoxamine post-marketing use.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and fosamprenavir as concurrent use may alter glasdegib exposure and lead to increased toxicity (e.g.,QT interval prolongation) and/or decreased efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring may be prudent. Glasdegib is a substrate of CYP3A4; fosamprenavir is both a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may also be a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. The net effect of fosamprenavir on CYP3A4 substrates is unknown, but fosamprenavir increases the concentrations of some CYP3A4 substrates. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase glasdegib exposure by 2.4-fold while coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease glasdegib exposure by 55%.
Foscarnet: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with foscarnet due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported during postmarketing use of foscarnet.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and fosphenytoin due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with fostemsavir due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with gemifloxacin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Do not exceed the recommended dose of gemifloxacin especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients; the likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with gemtuzumab ozogamicin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab. Increase the frequency of ECG monitoring during coadministration and monitor serum electrolytes as needed. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Goserelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with goserelin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with granisetron due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Granisetron has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with halogenated anesthetics due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with haloperidol due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with histrelin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and hydroxychloroquine due to the risk of increased QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Hydroxychloroquine prolongs the QT interval. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with hydroxyzine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Postmarketing data indicate that hydroxyzine causes QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Ibutilide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with ibutilide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Idelalisib: (Major) Consider an alternative to idelalisib during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with iloperidone due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Iloperidone has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with inotuzumab due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, obtain ECGs prior to the start of treatment and increase the frequency of ECG monitoring during concurrent use. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Inotuzumab has also been associated with QT interval prolongation.
Isoflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with halogenated anesthetics due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid use of glasdegib during and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of itraconazole therapy due to the potential for increased glasdegib exposure and additive effects on the QT interval. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased glasdegib-related adverse events and for increased risk of QT prolongation with more frequent ECG monitoring. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that may cause QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with ivosidenib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Monitor electrolytes and correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and glasdegib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of glasdegib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with clarithromycin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with lapatinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring; consider electrolyte monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with glasdegib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with glasdegib due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Concurrent use of letermovir with glasdegib may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. Consider an alternative to letermovir if administered with cyclosporine during treatment with glasdegib. If coadministration of glasdegib with both letermovir and cyclosporine cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when administered with cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Leuprolide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with leuprolide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and glasdegib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of glasdegib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold.
Lithium: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with lithium due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Lithium has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Lofexidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with lofexidine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Lofexidine also prolongs the QT interval.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Consider an alternative to lonafarnib during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Loperamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with loperamide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with loperamide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with glasdegib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. (Major) Consider an alternative to ritonavir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and lorlatinib due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after lorlatinib has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with glasdegib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of glasdegib prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with mefloquine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. However, due to the lack of clinical data, mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Methadone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with methadone due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and methohexital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided and methohexital will be used chronically, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after methohexital has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; methohexital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with midostaurin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Consider an alternative to mifepristone during treatment with glasdegib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and increased glasdegib exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased glasdegib-related adverse events and for increased risk of QT prolongation with more frequent ECG monitoring; use the lowest effective dose of mifepristone. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that may cause QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of inhibition of CYP3A4 with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of glasdegib and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and mitotane due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Modafinil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and modafinil due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after modafinil has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with moxifloxacin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Quinolones have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Although extremely rare, torsade de pointes has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and nafcillin due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after nafcillin has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Nefazodone: (Major) Consider an alternative to nefazodone during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to nelfinavir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid administration of nilotinib with glasdegib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Sudden death and QT interval prolongation have occurred in patients who received nilotinib therapy. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to ritonavir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with olanzapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with fluoxetine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with olanzapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with olanzapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and rifabutin due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after rifabutin has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with osilodrostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with osimertinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring and monitoring of electrolytes. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with oxaliplatin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring and monitor electrolytes; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with ozanimod due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with torsade de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of glasdegib and pacritinib may decrease glasdegib exposure and efficacy and increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, double the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after pacritinib has been discontinued for 7 days. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer was predicted to decrease glasdegib overall exposure by 55%.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with paliperidone if possible due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Paliperidone has also been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose.
Panobinostat: (Major) Coadministration of glasdegib and panobinostat is not recommended due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Pasireotide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with pasireotide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of glasdegib with pazopanib is not advised due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Pazopanib has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Pentamidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with pentamidine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Systemic pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and pentobarbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided and pentobarbital will be used chronically, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after pentobarbital has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; pentobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Consider increased frequency of ECG monitoring if glasdegib and perphenazine are coadministered due to the potential for additive effects on the QT interval. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Consider increased frequency of ECG monitoring if glasdegib and perphenazine are coadministered due to the potential for additive effects on the QT interval. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and phenobarbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and phenobarbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and phenytoin due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with pimavanserin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of glasdegib and pimozide is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with pitolisant due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and ponesimod due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of glasdegib and posaconazole is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); glasdegib exposure may be increased further increasing the risk of QT prolongation. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that may cause QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and primidone due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Procainamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with procainamide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Consider increased frequency of ECG monitoring if glasdegib and prochlorperazine are coadministered due to the potential for additive effects on the QT interval. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with quinidine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with quinine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with ranolazine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Relacorilant: (Major) Consider an alternative to relacorilant during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with relugolix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with relugolix due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and repotrectinib due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after repotrectinib has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Consider an alternative to ribociclib during treatment with glasdegib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and increased glasdegib exposure. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that may cause QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Consider an alternative to ribociclib during treatment with glasdegib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and increased glasdegib exposure. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that may cause QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and rifabutin due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after rifabutin has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and rifampin due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and rifapentine due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with rilpivirine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with risperidone due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider the patient's underlying disease state(s) and additional potential risk factors. Monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes. Reports of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes during risperidone therapy are noted by the manufacturer, primarily in the overdosage setting.
Ritonavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to ritonavir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with romidepsin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with electrolyte monitoring and increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of glasdegib and saquinavir is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); glasdegib exposure may be increased further increasing the risk of QT prolongation. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that may cause QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and secobarbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after secobarbital has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate; secobarbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with selpercatinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with halogenated anesthetics due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of siponimod and glasdegib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Solifenacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with solifenacin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality was not determined.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with glasdegib due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Sorafenib is also associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and St. John's wort due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with sunitinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Sunitinib can also prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with tacrolimus due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Tacrolimus also causes QT prolongation.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with telavancin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with tetrabenazine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of glasdegib and thioridazine is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is considered contraindicated for use along with agents that may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of TdP, and/or cause orthostatic hypotension. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Tipranavir: (Major) Consider an alternative to tipranavir during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Tolterodine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with tolterodine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with toremifene due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with electrolyte monitoring and increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Consider increased frequency of ECG monitoring if glasdegib and trifluoperazine are coadministered due to the potential for additive effects on the QT interval. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Trifluoperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with triptorelin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Tucatinib: (Major) Consider an alternative to tucatinib during treatment with glasdegib. Concurrent use may increase glasdegib exposure resulting in treatment-related adverse events including QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse events; more frequent ECG monitoring is recommended. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with glasdegib due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase frequency of ECG monitoring and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with vemurafenib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Vemurafenib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of glasdegib and voclosporin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation with supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with clarithromycin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Voriconazole: (Major) Consider an alternative to voriconazole during treatment with glasdegib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and increased glasdegib exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased glasdegib-related adverse events and for increased risk of QT prolongation with more frequent ECG monitoring. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate that may cause QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes. Coadministration of ketoconazole increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold in a drug interaction study.
Vorinostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with vorinostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and glasdegib should be avoided due to a potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic adverse events have been reported with glasdegib therapy. Monitor complete blood counts prior to starting glasdegib and at least once weekly for the first month of therapy. Permanently discontinue glasdegib and low-dose cytarabine therapy in patients who have an absolute neutrophil count less than 0.5 X 109 cells/L or a platelet count less than 10 X 109 cells/L lasting more than 42 days in the absence of disease. Anemia (43% vs. 42%), febrile neutropenia (31% vs. 22%), white blood cell (WBC) decreased (11% vs. 5%), platelet count decreased (15% vs. 10%), and thrombocytopenia (30% vs. 27%) occurred more often within the first 90 days of therapy in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) compared with low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 41) in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111). Grade 3 or higher anemia (41%), febrile neutropenia (31%), WBC decreased (11%), platelet count decreased (15%), and thrombocytopenia (30%) were reported in patients in the combination therapy arm.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bleeding, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), ecchymosis, epistaxis, GI bleeding, hematemesis, hematoma, hematuria, hemoptysis, injection site reaction, intracranial bleeding, ocular hemorrhage, petechiae, purpura, retinal hemorrhage, retroperitoneal bleeding, subdural hematoma, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP)
    General Information
    Bleeding was reported within the first 90 days of therapy in 36% of patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) in a safety analysis; grade 3 or higher bleeding occurred in 6% of these patients. The term bleeding includes petechiae, epistaxis, hematoma/subdural hematoma, contusion, rectal or anal bleeding, ecchymosis, hematuria, gingival or mouth bleeding, intracranial bleeding, cerebral hemorrhage, ocular hemorrhage, retinal hemorrhage, GI bleeding, hematemesis, hemoptysis, implant site hematoma, injection site reaction (i.e., bruising), retroperitoneal bleeding/hematoma, purpura, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), tracheal hemorrhage, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), and hematochezia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      disseminated intravascular coagulation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematemesis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hemoptysis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      petechiae
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      retinal hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      retroperitoneal bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      subdural hematoma
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal adverse events occurred in 45% (grade 3 or higher, 2%) of patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 79) in randomized clinical trial. In patients who develop musculoskeletal adverse reactions with concurrent elevated CPK levels, monitor serum CPK and creatinine levels at least weekly until toxicity resolution; therapy interruption, a dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary depending on the toxicity severity. Musculoskeletal pain (30% vs. 17%), muscle cramps/spasm or tightness (15% vs. 5%), and increased CPK level (16% vs. 6%) occurred more often within the first 90 days of therapy in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine compared with low-dose cytarabine alone in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111). Additionally, grade 3 or higher musculoskeletal pain occurred in 2% of patients in the combination therapy arm. The term musculoskeletal pain included extremity pain, arthralgia, back pain, myalgia, neck pain, and bone pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, hypoxia
    General Information
    Cough was reported within the first 90 days of therapy in 18% of patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) compared with 15% of patients who received low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 41) in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111). Additionally, dyspnea occurred in 23% of patients in the combination therapy arm; grade 3 or higher dyspnea was reported in 11% of these patients. The term dyspnea included hypoxia, bronchospasm, and respiratory failure.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoxia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    erythema, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, skin ulcer
    General Information
    Rash was reported within the first 90 days of therapy in 20% of patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) compared with 17% of patients who received low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 41) in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111); grade 3 or higher rash occurred in 2% of patients in the combination therapy arm. The term rash included pruritus, erythema, skin ulcer, maculopapular rash, and pruritic rash.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      skin ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia
    General Information
    In a safety analysis, alopecia occurred in less than 10% of patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Infection has been reported with glasdegib therapy. Pneumonia (19%) and sepsis (7%) occurred within the first 90 days of therapy in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) in a safety analysis; grade 3 or higher pneumonia was reported in 15% of these patients. The term pneumonia included aspiration pneumonia and lung infection.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Atrial arrhythmia (13% vs. 7%) and chest pain (12% vs. 2%) occurred more often within the first 90 days of therapy in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) compared with low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 41) in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111). Additionally, grade 3 or higher atrial arrhythmia (4%) and chest pain (unspecified) (1%) were reported in patients in the combination therapy arm. The term atrial arrhythmia included atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, tachycardia, and sinus tachycardia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia) have been reported with glasdegib therapy. Therapy interruption and a dose reduction is necessary in patients who develop a QTc interval greater than 500 milliseconds (msec) evaluated on at least 2 separate electrocardiograms (ECGs) during glasdegib therapy; permanently discontinue glasdegib in patients who develop QT prolongation with a life-threatening arrhythmia. Obtain an ECG prior to starting glasdegib, approximately 1 week after the first dose, and then once monthly for the next 2 months. Repeat the ECG if any abnormal results are observed. Some patients may require more frequent ECG monitoring. Monitor electrolytes prior to starting glasdegib and at least once weekly for the first month of therapy, then monitor electrolytes once monthly for the duration of therapy. In patients who develop QT prolongation greater than 480 msec evaluated on at least 2 separate ECGs, review and adjust concomitant medications with known QT interval-prolonging effects, monitor electrolytes and supplement as clinically indicated, and obtain an ECG at least weekly for 2 weeks following resolution of QTc prolongation to 480 msec or less. A QTc interval greater than 500 msec (5%) and a QTc interval increase of more than 60 msec from baseline (4%) occurred in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 98) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    nephrotoxicity, oliguria, renal failure (unspecified)
    General Information
    Nephrotoxicity has been reported with glasdegib therapy. Monitor renal function (e.g., serum creatinine and BUN levels) prior to starting glasdegib and at least once weekly for the first month of therapy, then monitor renal function once monthly for the duration of therapy. Renal insufficiency (19% vs. 10%) and increased serum creatinine level (96% vs. 80%) occurred more often within the first 90 days of therapy in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) compared with low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 41) in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111). Additionally, grade 3 or higher renal insufficiency (5%) and increased serum creatinine level (1%) occurred in patients in the combination therapy arm. The term renal insufficiency included acute kidney injury, increased blood creatinine level, oliguria, and renal failure (unspecified).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      oliguria
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity including elevated hepatic enzymes has been reported with glasdegib therapy. Monitor hepatic function (e.g., liver function tests) prior to starting glasdegib and at least once weekly for the first month of therapy. Increased AST level within the first 90 days of therapy was reported in 28% of patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 80) compared with 23% of patients who received low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 40) in a safety analysis; grade 3 or 4 increased AST level occurred in 1% of patients in the combination therapy arm. Additionally, increased bilirubin level/hyperbilirubinemia (25%; grade 3 or 4, 4%), increased ALT level 24%), and increased alkaline phosphatase level (23%) occurred in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, esophagitis, nausea, oral ulceration, stomatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse events including nausea (29% vs. 12%), mucositis (21% vs. 12%), constipation (20% vs. 12%), abdominal pain (19% vs. 12%), vomiting (18% vs. 10%), and anorexia/decreased appetite (21% vs. 7%) occurred more often within the first 90 days of therapy in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) compared with low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 41) in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111). Grade 3 or higher nausea (1%), constipation (1%), mucositis (1%), and vomiting (2%) occurred in patients in the combination therapy arm. Additionally, diarrhea (18%; grade 3 or higher, 4%), toothache (less than 10%), and loose tooth (less than 10%) were reported in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine. The term mucositis included mucosal inflammation, oropharyngeal pain, stomatitis, anal ulcer, gingival pain, laryngeal inflammation, esophagitis, oral pain, aphthous ulcer, mouth/oral ulceration, and pharyngeal inflammation. The term diarrhea included colitis and gastroenteritis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      esophagitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue/asthenia occurred within the first 90 days of therapy in 36% of patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) compared with 32% of patients who received low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 41) in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111); grade 3 or higher fatigue/asthenia was reported in 14% of patients in the combination therapy arm.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, fluid retention, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Edema was reported within the first 90 days of therapy in 30% of patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) compared with 20% of patients who received low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 41) in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111). The term edema included peripheral edema, fluid overload, fluid retention, and face swelling.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fluid retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever was reported within the first 90 days of therapy in 18% of patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) in a safety analysis; grade 3 or higher fever occurred in 1% of these patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, dysgeusia, headache
    General Information
    Nervous system adverse events including dysgeusia/ageusia (21% vs. 2%), dizziness (18% vs. 7%), and headache (12% vs. 10%) occurred more often within the first 90 days of therapy in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) compared with low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 41) in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111). Additionally, grade 3 or higher dizziness occurred in 1% of patients in the combination therapy arm.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    weight loss
    General Information
    Weight loss was reported within the first 90 days of therapy in 13% of patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine (n = 84) compared with 2% of patients who received low-dose cytarabine alone (n = 41) in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia
    General Information
    Electrolyte imbalance may predispose patients to develop QT interval prolongation. Monitor electrolytes prior to starting glasdegib and at least once weekly for the first month of therapy, then monitor electrolytes once monthly for the duration of therapy. Electrolyte abnormalities including hyponatremia (54% vs. 41%), hypomagnesemia (33% vs. 23%), and hyperkalemia (16% vs. 8%) occurred more often within the first 90 days of therapy in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine compared with low-dose cytarabine alone in a safety analysis of 125 patients (AML, n = 111). Grade 3 or 4 hyponatremia (7%) and hyperkalemia (1%) were reported in patients in the combination therapy arm. Additionally, hypokalemia (15%) occurred in patients who received glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fetal death, infertility
    General Information
    Glasdegib may cause embryo-fetal death when administered during pregnancy; it has shown to be embryotoxic, fetotoxic, and teratogenic in animals. In addition, animal data suggests glasdegib may cause male infertility.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fetal death
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Glasdegib is an oral hedgehog pathway inhibitor. It is indicated in combination with low-dose cytarabine for the treatment of newly-diagnosed acute myelogenous leukemia in patients who are 75 years or older or who have comorbidities that make them ineligible for intensive induction chemotherapy. Glasdegib may cause embryo-fetal death or severe birth defects when administered during pregnancy.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Glasdegib is a hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway inhibitor. It works by binding to and inhibiting the transmembrane protein smoothened (SMO) that is necessary for Hh signal transduction. A greater inhibition in tumor size and a reduced number of CD45-positive and CD33-positive blasts in the bone marrow were observed with glasdegib plus low-dose cytarabine compared with glasdegib or low-dose cytarabine alone in a murine xenotransplant model of human acute myelogenous leukemia.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The mean absolute bioavailability of glasdegib is 77% and the median time to peak concentrations (Tmax) at steady-state ranges from 1.3 to 1.8 hours. There is a dose proportional increase in peak concentrations (Cmax) and area under the curve over the dosing interval (AUCtau). Steady-state plasma concentrations are reached by 8 days of daily dosing and the mean accumulation ration ranges from 1.2 to 2.5 after once-daily dosing. The geometric mean (geometric coefficient of variation, %CV) of glasdegib Cmax is 1,252 ng/mL (44%) and the AUCtau is 17,210 ng x hr/mL (54%) in patients with cancer.
 
Effects of food: A high-fat (500 to 600 fat calories), high-calorie (total 800 to 1000 calories) meal reduced the area under the curve over time to infinity (AUCinf) by 16% and the Cmax by 31%.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild hepatic impairment (defined as total bilirubin level of the upper limit of normal (ULN) or less and AST level greater than the ULN, or total bilirubin level 1 to 1.5 times the ULN and any AST level) had no clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of glasdegib in a population PK analysis. In a single-dose PK study, AUC values were not significantly altered in subjects with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment. Following a single 100-mg dose of glasdegib, AUC values were increased by 11% in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment and decreased by 24% in subjects with severe hepatic impairment compared with subjects who had normal hepatic function.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 60 to 89 mL/min) had no clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of glasdegib in a population PK analysis. Following a single 100-mg dose of glasdegib, AUC values were increased by 2.1-fold in subjects with moderate (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 30 to 59 mL/min) and severe (eGFR of 15 to 29 mL/min) renal impairment compared with subjects who had normal renal function (eGFR of 90 mL/min or greater).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (25 to 92 years) did not have clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of glasdegib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender did not have clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of glasdegib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (Caucasian, African-American, Asian) did not have clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of glasdegib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (43.5 to 145.6 kg) did not have clinically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of glasdegib.
  Text
  Glasdegib is administered orally. Plasma protein binding is 91% in vitro and the geometric mean (%CV) apparent volume of distribution is 188 L (20%) in patients with hematologic malignancies. Glasdegib accounts for 69% of the total circulating drug-related material in plasma. It is primarily metabolized by the CYP3A4 pathway, with minor contributions by CYP2C8 and UGT1A9. After a single oral radiolabeled dose of 100 mg, 49% (17% unchanged) of the administered dose was eliminated in the urine and 42% (20% unchanged) was eliminated in the feces. The mean half-life is 17.4 hours with a geometric mean (%CV) apparent clearance of 6.45 L/h (25%) after 100 mg daily dosing in patients with hematologic malignancies.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2C8, UGT1A9, P-gp, BCRP, MATE-1, and MATE-2K
Glasdegib is primarily metabolized by the CYP3A4 pathway, with minor contributions by CYP2C8 and UGT1A9. Avoid use with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers; increase the glasdegib dosage as recommended per manufacturer guidance if use with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is required. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with glasdegib increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold and the Cmax by 1.4-fold. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% and the Cmax by 35%; coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC by 55% and the Cmax by 25%. Glasdegib is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP, but the clinical significance is unknown. Glasdegib inhibits P-glycoprotein (P-gp), breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), multidrug and toxin extrusion protein (MATE)-1, and MATE-2K in vitro.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take glasdegib with or without food at about the same time each day.
Swallow whole; do not split or crush tablets.
If vomiting occurs, do not take an additional dose; wait to take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time.
If a dose is missed, take within 12 hours of missing the dose. If more than 12 hours have passed, skip the dose of the day and take the dose the next day at the scheduled time.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    100 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    100 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for glasdegib dosage adjustments in patients with hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no initial dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  No initial glasdegib dosage adjustments are recommended in patients with renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 15 to 89 mL/min). Glasdegib has not been evaluated in patients with end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis.
